I h

THE LIVE-ACTION GAMING MAGAZINE

## Mind' S Eye heatre OURNAL

BECAUSE THE MIND'S EYE NEVER BLINKS

Welcome to the Mind's Eye the atre Journal, The magazine that picks up where other Mind's Eyepublicationsleaveoff. This is sue presents: - ·A guide to acting in live-action play
- ·Dharmasheretical to all self-respecting Kuei-jin
- ·A look at the hideous fomori
- ·Motivation to torchmy effigy
- ·Topical is sues onlive-action roleplaying and more the Journal provides everything you need to make your Mind's Eye the atre chroniclesmore diverse, complex and complete! What do you want to see? ## www. white-wolf. com

I

CRNESTODIO

Mind's heatre

## CREDITS

Authors: Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Jess Heinig, MAt thew Hooper, Ed

Spymoun, Cynthia Summers, Peter Woodworth

Developer: Carl Bowen

Editor: Richard Ruane

Art Director: Aaron Voss

Photographer: Laura Robles

Frontand Back Cover Design: Aaron Voss

Layout and Typesetting: Aaron Voss

## WHAT You'VE MISSED

## is sue #4
- The secrets of the wraiths of the Jade Empire. - The conclusion of the Mayday! Chronicle. - Live-Action Mage rules... sort of. ## is sue #5
- The first part of MET'S look at Wraith: The Great War. - A look at the Bunyip for Laws of the Wyld West. - The eznherjur of the Dark Ages. ## is sue #6
- The second part of MET'S look at Wraith: The Great War
- were wolves in the Dark Ages
- Yulan-Jin and Dhampyrs

7% PARK NORTH BUD. SUITE 128 USA

0 2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction with out the written permission of the publisher is expressly for bidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may he reproduced for personal useonly. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension, World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publish- ing, Inc. All rights reserved. were wolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter thereckoning, were wolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Mind's Eye the atre Journal, Oblivion, Kindred of the East Companion, and Laws of the Hunt are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc. The mention of or reference to any company or product in the se pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and the mes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised. For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. Check out White Wolf online at http://www. white-wolf. com; alt. games. whitewolf and rec. games. frp. storyteller PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES. BECAUSETHEMIND'SETE NEVERBLINKS

## TABLEOF CONTENTS

WELCOME! | by yours Truly | |
| STAYINGIN CHARACTER by Cynthia Summers | 6 |
| DEADGUYSPEAKS by Richard E. Dansky | II |
| all THE WORLD'SA STAgE by MAt thew Hooper | 17 |
| HERETICALDHARMAS by Peter Woodworth | 28 |
| GEHENNA WEARSA PURDLE DRESS TONIGHT by Ed Spymoun | 38 |
| THE FOMORI by yours Truly | 49 |
| WRAITHMERITSAND FLAWSFOROBLIVION by Jess Heinig | 62 |
| EVENT HORIZON | 74 |

## w E LCO M E! Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the seventh is sue of the MET Journal! For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second to acquaint you with just what you've got here. (For those of you who already know, you may skip ahead to Cynthia's article on staying in character.)

The Journal is a quarterly public at i on dedicated to filling in the gaps in your White Wolf LARP environment. We of fer rules for new character types, or igin al story lines to work into your chronicles, guides for keeping your games under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won't find in any other Mind's Eye release. Plus, you'll find answers to the questions that have plagued you, or igin al World of Darkness fiction and columns from people who've been LARPing or working here at White Wolf (or both) for years. In this is sue, we delve into the acting side of live-action roleplaying. Cynthia Summers and MAt thew Hooper provide insight on how to truly make your character come to life on the mobile stage of roleplaying. On the other end of the spectrum, I of fer rules for fomori and slip in the heretical Dharma rules that did n't make it into Laws of the East. And that's just a sample of what's in store for you here. We'll also take a look at what you've missed in previous is sues (if you're joining us late) and what to expect in the future of Mind's Eye the atre and White Wolf in general. In the next is sue of the Journal, we'll finish up Laura Hanson's series on costuming, I'll say A few words about running a LARP chronicle, and I'll make an unrelated revelation you might not expect. Until the n, you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on your opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us questions about the features and rules you see here, as well as not es about the broken rules you come across in different MET publications. Send us horror stories about games gone wrong and how your player characters fixed the m. We're interested in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and we want to know what you think. Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; we've got so me thing for everybody. And if we don't have it yet, let us know. We'll get it for you. Curl Bowen Developer carl@white-wolf. corn White Wolf Attn: Mind's Eye the atre Journal Developer 735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 USA

## STAYING I N CHARACTER by Cynthia Summers

Cynthia knows things. She's been developing Mind's Eye the atre for more than a year now, and she's been pkzying Mind's Eye the atre since she started working for White Wolf in 1994. She's one of theresident LARPing experts in house. As an observer of the dynamics of he-action rokplayingsociety, she i s with out peer. When you go to a Mind's Eye the atre game, or any LARP forthat matter, one of the game's greatest charms is the total immersion in the scene. for the next several hours, you're not who you are at home. You're the dread prince of the city or the brave knight questing for the treasure or the ghost that's been terrorizing the kids on Lovers' Lane. When you're at the game, you have a character. Unfortunately, there are numerous distractions that can make maintaining that character challenging at best, impossible at worst. This is the challenge of every actor and every roleplayer -how to maintain character. there are a number of reasons why you may have trouble in the first place, but for every reason, there is certainly a solution. ## BEING AROUND OTHERS WHO ARE OUTOE PLAY

Sometimes, you get a couple of folks who just saw the latest Star Wars and simply must discuss it right there in the middle of the game (and they sure don't sound like thered Talons they're supposed to be...). Or you have to deal with some fool who insists on quoting you the entirety of Monty Python's The Life of Brian to prove he can. the n you have the two who haven't seen each other since the panty raid at Gropecon'97, and they just reunited in the middle of the game. Ask your Storyteller about designating a spot in the game site as out-of play and announcing at the beginning of the night where it is. Those who are being noisy should be encouraged to take their discussion elsewhere. don't go into the are a unless you have to. If you're having trouble maintaining character, it'll be that much harder around a bunch of folks who are there to smoke, greet their long-lost buddies or what ever. ## THE PHYSICAL THINGS

Eating, drinking, and sleeping -little things that our all etoo-human bodies crave -can sometimes run roughshod over the mood in a chronicle (particularly for those playing the non-living). People tend to drop character on thesmokingporchoraroundthesnacktable, simplybecausetheybelieve their characterswouldn't be caught dead with a hotdog in hand. In the caseof smoking, eitherdesignate the smokingloungeascompletely out of play or completely inplay. this designation should have not hingto do with smokingorabstaining, how ever. yourcharactercan still have hiscoffin nail—justkeep talkingabout in-play topicswhileyou'repuffing, or remain out of play until you'redone, as the Storyteller dictates. Some games encourage players to bring snacks and drinks for those inevitable munchies that arise during a busy evening of do min ating the city, or your play sitesprovidevendingmachines. Should eatingbein or out of character?A couple of ideas arise. Consider stickers that can be slappedon the comestible'spackage(or the playerhimself)toindicatewhether the food is in or out of play. Otherwise, you should take your treatto theout-of play are aif you can't countenance eating in character. Eatingin play is certainly not strange tomortals, Garouorchangelings, and sometimes itsevenencouraged. A growling stomach in the middle of court is a tad embarrassing, after all. Wraithsdo Skinrideoccasionallyforthepleasure of tastingfoodagain, while a Kuei-jin who's flushedwith Yang may eat with out difficulty. Some Kindred practicethefacade of eatinginordertoperfecttheir Masquerade(which some other Cainitesfinddisgusting). Physical considerations like sleepiness and illness also make it difficult to stay in character. Not only is it hard to concentrate on the Riteof Cleansing ifyou're noddingofforcoughingup a lung, it'sdifficult toconcentrate if someone else is having similarlyobvious problemsnearby. Ifyou'rebushed, seep. fyousick, why are ouatgamehisartisommonsenselks. Havinga game scheduledisnoreason tobe out spreadingyour germs and dragging your groggy but t around. Even if you're determined to run on adrenaline, consider that you might make mistakes that your well-rested characterwouldknowtoavoid. Aheadcloudedbyexhaustion, hunger, pain and the likedoesn'tmakeforgoodroleplaying. ## YOU LOOKLIKE WHAT? what could bemorefrustratingthanatrailof peoplewantingtoknowout of play about your physical appearancewhileyou're trying to role play?God bless thosewhogave us the ribbon, the sticker and the tag. the se accoutermentsgiveustheinfo that we should know by sight. Wearwhatyouneed to describeyourvisibleconditionprominentlylaced(sleevecaps, lapels). ue, you can becreativebutclaimingyourpurplebrassiereindicatesyour Majesty is, ahem, not asterlingchoice. Ignore thosedopeswhoaretoolazytoreadthe tags and interruptyouwith questions that are answerablewith a ribbon or othersign, and do ntbeadopeyourself. fyouhaveatag, weariitdoesno good in your car. Bear inmind that a white ribbon in one gamemay mean somethingentirelydiffrentnanotherndifoutravelmakesureou on the local customs. Ifyourcharacterissomethingunusual(albino, winged, humpbacked), this detailisevenmore important. It helps those aroundyoureactproperly toyou, and sometimes, that reaction can helpreinforce the characterforyou. Make aneffort to costume. yourcostume do esn'tneed tobe overlyelaborate —a"lucky"flannel shirt, abone choker, a tabard—but it can really help you "put on your character"as you put it on. Sometimes it'smore helpful to consider a general"look"for your character, as opposed to a single elaborate costume. Think colors, styles, adornmentbroadbrush-strokes no different than when you were creating the numbers side of the character. That way, you have some backupchoicesshould the shirtbein thewashorshouldyoube atalargeevent. ## ANCIENT, POWERfULAND DEADLY

Concept problems can be one of the biggest causes of handling character poorly, and sometimes, an ounce of thought can be worth a pound of frustration. Grab that sheet, and lets sitown for a spell. Look at your Atributes, both positive and negative. Are you actually playingthem?how did you gettobe Wiryor Wise?forthat matter, how did you get tobe Obliviousor Lameookatshadesofmeaning. do esyour Oblivious Trait meanthatyouzoneoutbecauseyou'relisteningto thevoicesinyourhead, or that you get busy on a project and for get to pay attention around you?the se Attributesarethestuffofrawpotential, usuallydeeplyrootedin thewhatand why of yourcharacter. they'renot justfor challenges or tofill out a sheet. Look atyour Abilities; many of them lend so me thing toyou. So you've got a lot of Academics. do youread everything you can getyourhands on, are you neverseenwithoutabookinyourhands, or do you asklotsofquestions?You've beenworking on learning tofight?do your hands clench into fists automati cally every timeyou hearraisedvoices, or do you just watch brawls tolearn more?your Abilitiesareareflectionofwhatyouknowandhavelearned, and they carry over into how your character behaves. Derangements, Merits and Flaws are more than nifty geegaws. Are you actuallyplayingsaid Traitsoraretheyjustornaments?Bearnmindthatacertain set of stimuli gaveyou saidderangement, Meritor Flawstimuliwhichyoumay need toprovide. Derangements inparticulararefull-timejobs. What stimulimake yourcharacter's insanity flare or settle?Are you playing them actively? Playersofstereotypicalcharactersfrequentlyhavethegreatestproblems with stayingincharacter. Mosttimes, astereotypicalcharacterhasasingleset of reactionsfora setof occasions(usuallyhavingnothingtodowith free-flow "daily"eventswithtriggersthatareexcruciatingly specificorthefabled broad side of the barn). As a result, the players have no clue what to do when somethingneworunexpectedcropsup. Evenworse, saidcharacterfallsback on the only thing he can think of (which may be entirely in appropriate). If you'vegivenreal thoughttoyourcharacter, the nyoudon'tneedarotesetof reactionsforeverycircumstance-you knowwhatwill happen. fantasy works or going to the movies? If you don't know how your character views the se things, that can really hamper staying in character when you're around others who are discussing the movie that surely inspired a Chrysalis or two. Even Ghengis Khan took a break. and now, that last sect i on of charactercreation that many tendtogloss over——quirks, habits and other indefin ables. do es your character have hobbies or interests beyond what's on the sheet?Is she reading the latest

## DAMN, I'VE C~OTTO S I T O O P

Sometimes you've got to leave the action. Maybe you're going to play another character for the Storyteller, maybe you've been asked to sit away from the in-play are a while your character runs a ritual or drives so me where, or you've got to leave early for a real-life job. there are definitely more viable options than making the out-of-play sign and leaving. If you're going to do so me thing in another part of the game (playing a Storyteller character or helping at check-in), the n consider excusing yourself in character to make a phone call, check email or do some other little thing that should naturally occur of f-stage. Before youreturn, take a moment to reorient yourself and re-enter to what ever chaos greets you. The same option is open if you're leaving for a job or other event. Leave under some character pretext (answeringapage, feeding the cat, writing the pontifex), make your incharacter farewells and depart. do ing so is a lot more story-friendly than simply barging out and making a great deal of out-of-character noise. In the case of driving, rituals or other tasks that have a time requirement, you need not sit and twiddle your thumbs, nor fall into out-of-play conversation you're not interested in. Grab a book or so me thing that your character might actually be interested in, or think about what your character is do ing while running the ritual, hacking the system or driving. Did she run a red light? Did she take extra care with drawing her circles? Storytellers may ask such things as plot fodder, but even if they don't, it can be a neat detail to bring back to play, in add it i on to keeping you focused. ## MOM, WE'RE BORED! the n, last but not least, there's that great enemy of the roleplayer -boredom. Sitting by yourself do ing not hing seems to be one of the greatest temptations to all sorts of naughtiness. It can also be apowerful motive to slide out of character. After all, you're not do ing anything, so why bother? If you for esee a slow evening for an in-play circumstance, or there's a chance the event you were planning for do esn't go of f, bring things with you that your character could do to keep busy, such as a book, the tools of your craft or a game. Chess seems to be the default sport of kings, but backgammon, go, mancala or mah jhong are equally valid. Plus there's always a deck of cards. If you must sit out, the n you'll have so me thing to keep busy with. Ifyou're in play, I

## DEADGUY SPEAKS by Richard E. Dansky

## C~ABBA HEY, GABBA HEY, NOT ONEOE U s or

P R E c r s E L r WHY &amp; LO# YOUR NoN-LARPIN~ IRIENDS THINK YOU'RE NUTS

If you're reading this column, you fall into one of two classes of people: players of Mind's Eye the atre or my immediate family. If you're one of the for mer (and the odds are, I think, pretty good), the n you've probably had a conversation that goes so me thing like this: ## FRIEND

Hi there! Want to go catch a movie Friday? YOU

Umm, sorry, I can't. It's Masquerade night, and I really have to be there. ## FRIEND

You said that two weeks ago. And two weeks before that. YOU

I know, I know, but this is so me thing I've been working towards for a long time, and I have to be there tonight or the Ventrue primogen will... ## FRIEND what ever. Say hi to Count Chocula for me. Sounds familiar, do esn't it? Not only that, but it's incredibly frustrating. After all, you want to spend time with your friends who don't play the game, but it seems like every time you talk to the m, they're demanding that you give up a game session that invariably contains some crucial chain of events. (And I hope I'm not going out on a limb here by assuming that you do indeed have friends who don't play.) your friends, on the other hand, see every attempt to be social stymied because you've got to go to the game. Even worse, they see all of your free time sucked up by this game to such an extent that they're ready to hire Harvey Keitel to kidnap and deprogram you (on the condition that he promises to keep his pants on at all times). It's not a pretty situation, and it's one that can lead to a lot of strain on both you and your non-gaming social circle. Left untended, that sort of dilemma can cause resentment, wreck friendships and generate enough angst to fuel every Oblivion chronicle on the continent. (OK, the wise-ass who said, 'Both of the m?' is getting a stem talking-to when this column is over. Count on it.)

Dealing with those who are 'outside the tribe' of gamers has always been problematic, but it gets even more so when you have problems dealing with non-LARPers who are at least initially friendly to the idea of LARP. not e, how ever, that 'Friendly to the idea of LARP' i s not semantically equivalent to 'Ripe fodder for recruitment into your little ghoul army.' A friend can appreciate that you have fun playing Masquerade with out having the slightest inclin ation to do so herself, and repeated attempts to haul her into play will y-nilly will squander that appreciation rapidly. Let's put it this way: Many of my friends regard Arnold Schwarzenegger as a luminous paradigm of the the spian craft. I think he's got the dramatic range of a kangaroo's discus toss, but I certainly don't begrudge m y friends their enjoyment. I wish them happiness When they get to get her forthat boffo Commando/ Red Heat do uble feature playing do wn at the campus cinema series, but I'm not going to partake myself, than ks. The same goes for LARPing. Just because someone do esn't immediately condemn your vampireLARPasa toolofsatan (who, incidentally, really should have kicked Amold'sassmuch harder in Endof Days), she'snot necessarily ready to dive who le-heartedly into the game. Maybe she just appreciates the fact that you're having a good time. there is middle ground. Honest. Unfortunately, there's a steady, basic miscommunication between the LARP community and therest of the world as to what exactly is going on once the capes come out and the fangs appear. To all but the most closely proximate non-tribesman, that Vampire LARP thing you do is a 'game.' On a certain level, they're right. It's a game, a simulation and an exercise that you do for the sake of fun and social interaction. how ever, where the problem comes in is your definition of a 'game' versus theirs. After all, they think you're playing a game in the same way that they'd play chess or Parcheesi or Frogger. You play, someone wins, and it's over. That's it, end of story, it's time to move on. You, how ever, are aware that you are instead partaking in a chronicle, a long-running series of interconnected stories detailing character growth and conflict, and carried out over a series of sessions that can last years. What we have here, as the man said, is failure to communicate. Oops. Is this anyone's fault? of course not -at least not initially. Most of the folks out there have certain perceptions of what a game is, how it's played and what its demarcations are. there's no reason forthem to expect that MET behaves any differently, after all. On the other hand, you have every reason to expect your friends to be understanding of your need to devote time to so me thing that you've invested a lot of work and emotional energy into. therein, to be honest, lies the rub. A chronicle is not an episodic sort of thing. It's cumulative. Plots evolve and move for ward. Characters become more complex and more fully realized. Social interactions acquire depth. Plus, there are more and more people who se characters you have to consider as each session rolls past. That sounds fairly generic, right? Every activity gets more complex with time. But you, you've put innumerable hours into your plans and building your all iances. You've spent lots of do wntime writing reports, sending in-character emails and arranging brief betweensessions roleplaying moments. You've laid out cash, at the very least, for costuming. You've put a ton of energy into maneuvering yourself into a position where you can grab power in the city and learn that new Discipline you've had your eye on. Now you're ready to put are al stick up your arch-rival's but t, but it's all going to depend on the next session, and you had better be there to make sure all goes according to plan. Besides, if you skip the session, that son of a bitch Ventrue suddenly jumps two points ahead of you on the experience curve, which means he's in that much better position to crush everything you've worked for, kill your character, and render the long-winded setup in the previous paragraph moot. (Side not e: Why is it that the most intense roleplayers, the ones who put in the absolute most time plotting, scheming, building characters, acquiring experience, shmoozing fellow players and generally working to bend the game to their will are inevitably the guys you hate

--of power for the sake of benefiting their characters or screwing over people he do esn't like.]

Combating this sort of thing of ten turns into a vendetta for even the most reason able folks. they're will ing to lose status, have plans come to naught and even kiss beloved characters good-bye -but not if that asshole is the one who benefits. After all, that asshole will, ifcrowned prince, ruin the game, killoff tons of characters and generally wreckeveryone's fun. Unfortunately, to prevent this outcome, otherwise-well-balanced people are for ced into an ever-widening spiral of commitment, just to keep pace with the schmuck du jour. of course, to an outside observer, this phenomenon looks like a rapid descent into obsessive-compulsive behavior, and possibly an Academy Award-nomin ated role for Winona Ryder When they finally make that movie about you.)

So let's take a step back to that hypothetical conversation we started things with. your friend sees everything you're do ing to culmin ate all of the work you've do ne for the character and cut of f Y e Schmuck0 Grande, and he decides that you've gone LARP crazy and that you no longer have any use for people outside that special little world. After all, on those rare occasions when you do manage to hang out, you talk about what you've do ne recently -which is LARP. (Side not e #2: This sort of situation is usually not helped by infrequent sessions of hanging out. After all, at those moments you talk about what you've do ne recently, which of ten consists o f... what you've do ne at the LARP. It's an affliction common to all enthusiastic hobbyists -you should hear fantasy baseball players ramble on for hours about the minutiae of the Cubs' backup middle infielder situation -but it's inevitably really incredibly annoying to the non-hobbyists for ced to endure it.)

You, on the other hand, have decided that your friend is an insensitive bastard for demanding that you abandon everything you've worked for just to catch a movie that will no do ubt be on video with in the hour anyway. Plus, he's showing an appalling lack of understanding of all the work, passion and probably money you've put into this, and exactly how much will go do wn the drain if you miss the session. So who's at fault? Again, nobody is. It's just a miscommunication. how ever, that miscommunication will do a Godzilla-style number on your friendships with folks outside the game that you're in i f it's all owed to continue. This column isn't me trying to be funny or get in a backhanded slam at folks who genuinely enjoy playing M E T full-throttle. This stuff happens, and it happens a lot, which is a shame. After all, like I keep on saying, MET is a game. It's supposed to add to your life and make it more fun. Stressing friendships do es not, b y my definition of the word, add to anyone's fun, and it behooves you and your friends outside the tribe to make some efforts to bridge that gap of communication before anything irrevocable occurs. I

The most important step in achieving some sort of dktente between your LARPing and non-LARPing lives is clearing up the misunderstanding over what sort of game it is. The best way to go about it is to couch it in terms that your friends will recognize and relate to. If they bowl, they'd be of fended if you asked them to skip a league night for amovie, especially with the league championship (and the coveted gold-plated ugly shoes trophy) on the line. therefore, it's only a short jump to comparing your show down with Vinnie the Ventrue to his show down with the guys who normally hang out on lane 21. Couching the session in question in terms like that helps on several levels. First of all, it provides an easily under stand able parallel for what you're do ing and why you're do ing it. You've put a lot of time into the character, he's put a lot of time into his game. You've put a lot of money into costuming, he's bought a strike ball, a spare ball and a pair of Goddamned ugly shoes. And so it goes. By bringing what you've do ne into close comparison to what he's do ne, it suddenly makes more sense. significantly. If your behaviors suddenly aren't so different from his behaviors, he may well have a more sympathetic view toward what you're do ing and how you're going about do ing it. Furthermore, do ing so helps to ratchet do wn the"alien hobby—FREAKS"factor

(the n again, your buddy may just decide that he, too, is an irredeemable freak, and begin the process of ritual self-immolation in the nearest cross walk. Those, how ever, are the risks you have to take for the greater good.)

It's a small step, but it's a worthwhile one. You can't mandate understanding on your friends' part; you can only provide the tools and opportunities by which they just might under stand why exactly you do that wacky thing you do. Think of yourself as an enabler, and suddenly you'll feel much better about the process. the n again, there always remains the slim possibility that maybe, just maybe, your friend is right and you actually are devoting too much time to the game. Take a minute and popopenyourcopyof Lawsof the Night. so me where in that bookisadisclaimer about how, i f you're calling the primogen at 3 2 7 in the morning to discuss who did what to who se socks at Elysium, you need to take a break. That one's in there for a reason, folks, and it's not to pad word count. If enough people are saying, 'Gee, you're playing that game an awful lot,' it's worth a minute or two to do a mental check on exactly how much time, effort and money you're putting into play. If you can answer in the affirmative to more than half of the se questions, you might want to take a step back: - 1-Do you get your mail and find yourself vaguely annoyed that none of it is addressed to your character? - 2-do es your character have a larger wardrobe than you do? - 3-do es your email application have a separate folder for IC game correspondence that's slightly larger than a scanned-in copy of War and Peace? - 4-Do the waitrons at the local 24 hour restaurants know you by your character name rather than your real one? - 5-do es the sight of a T-shirt emblazoned with the exhortation, 'DO NOT TELL ME ABOUT you R CHARACTER!' inspire sudden rage in you? - 6-Do you look for ward to traveling to exotic locales because they've been described in White Wolf books and you can't wait to have your character announce that he's spoken to the can onical White Wolf characters? - 7-Have you ever been in an uncomfortable discussion or situation and had someone say, 'Why are your arms folded across your chest all of a sudden?'
- 8-Do you find yourself mentally assigning Negative Traits to people you don't like? - 9-Have you ever seriously considered dating someone else's character, even if you wouldn't touch that particular player with a biohazard suit on? - 10-Have you ever screwed up at school or work and found yourself actually trying to explain to your superior/ professor that it wasn't your fault because the Nosferatu kept you up all night? - 11-Have you ever shown of f your copy of the old Laws of the Night and proudly identified it as a first printing because a.) the spine lettering is unreadable and b.) it do esn't have the typo on the back cover? If you answered 'Yes' to a majority of the se questions, it's probably time to slow do wn a bit. If you answered'Yes, and your point is?' it's definitely time to take a break, and possibly time for another hobby. This is not to say that because you play MET, you automatically play too much MET. After all, I like the fact that you're playing the game. It means, among other things, that you buy MET-related products, and I get to keep churning out this nifty column for which they pay me quite nicely. Having devoted an ungodly number of hours and an untold amount of

--start decrying the evils of the game system. I mean, come on, people. how ever, it's easy to fall into the great trap of the continuing live-action chronicle, which is to say its cumulative nature. Yes, this week is when everything comes to a head -but odds are, there's going to be so me thing just as vital at the next session, and the one after that, and so on. there's always another idiot or munchkin or asshole or twink who's on the verge of ruining the game if you, personally, don't interpose yourself. there's always another email to write, just to make sure that everything's going according to plan, another XP to pick up to ensure that you're character will survive the next game. And so it goes -it's no better or worse or different than computer gamers who hog-tie the mselves to Ciuilizutiun so they can build one more chariot unit before bed, except that there are other people involved, for better or for worse. I

If you lose sight of that, the n just maybe your friend might have a point. After all, no matter how many times you throw yourself on the grenade of El Twinko, every chronicle ends sooner or later. Every game winds do wn. And when it do es, you want to be able to dust yourself of f, smile nostalgically at your much-marked character sheet, and walk of f with your life having been made better By the fact that you played. You don't want to look around at the wreckage with a wide-eyed expression of panic and start planning a new game just because you have no idea what the hell else to do with your time. You have a responsibility, after all, a responsibility to yourself. You do not have a responsibility to Save The Game. If Baron Von Twinkenstein is ruining it, you don't necessarily have to be the hero every time. If he's really that bad, someone else will probably try to help; i f he isn't, maybe you need to relax. And if worse comes to worst, you can always start a new game. If the guy's that much of a ninny, odds good that are the folks you actually want to play with will come with you -and if you're not going toe to toe with your pet schmuck, odds are you'll have a little more time around the game. More importantly, you have a responsibility to yourself to make yourself happy, and even the most avid player will -upon due reflection -agree that letting therest of your life atrophy for the sake of the game probably do esn't cover that criterion too well. In the end, it do es come do wn to perspective. You have to help your friends achieve a clearer perspective on what you're do ing and why it's important to you. If they're friends worth keeping, they'll respect that, stick around and make an effort to get to get her around your gaming schedule. By the same token, you owe it to yourself to re-examine your perspective on the who le thing, and make sure you're happy with the role the game is playing in your life. Yes, it's fun, and yes, it can happily suck up as much time as you want to give it. Just be sure you're happy with how much time you're giving it, and how much time you're giving everything else. In the end, after all, it's a game that you play -that's all. All in all, that's a pretty damned good thing for it to be. You'll probably want to keep it from becoming anything more. your friends have no right to t r y to make it anything less. But in the me an time, that middle's a heck of a place to be. And if not? there's always room for one more at the bowling all ey, if you can stand the shoes. -the deadguy

## ALL THE WORLD'S A STAC~E

## A ROUGH C ~ U I D E T O ACTING I N M E T play by Matthew Hooper

MAt thew 1 Hooper has spent over two decades chasing a career in the ater. He graduated from the Catholic University of America with a the ater majo r. He came to Atlanta, GA to become a starving actorlwaiter, only realizing late in life that, while acting is cool, starving sucks. While some of the roles he played were immense fun -especially the lead in Romeo and Juliet -eventually he hung up his tights and rapier and went to work in th e mundane world. the se days, he writes freelance material for White Wolf, contributing to the cjuide to the Camarilla and Storytellers guide. He still feels the need to treud the boards occasionally, though. 'So, what's this weird hobby of yours you do on the weekends?' Most Mind's Eye the atre players have faced this awkward question from wellmeaning friends or relatives at some point. It's never aneasy one to tackle. How do you explain to your dear Aunt Edna that you pretend to be a were wolf on alternate Tuesdays with out making her cough up her dentures and give your folks embarrassed glances? Do you lie and tell her you like to take long, soulful walks in the woods? After all, you can leave out the part where you bay at the moon. Do you just do dge the question by complementing her on her new crocheted sweater? A lot of players settle forthis half-truth: 'I'm in an improvisational the ater troupe.' It sounds nice and profound. The conversation can move on again safely. After all, the ater is a respectable hobby. And while improv comedy isn't Shakespeare, Clive and erson and his friends had a huge hit with that who se Line is it Anyway? show of theirs. the ater is an ancient, noble art where you dress up and pretend to be someone else in front of an audience, while live action games, why, they're some scruffy hobby where.. er... you do the same thing with out an audience. And with some games of Rock-Paper-Scissors tossed in to boot. Hmm. Maybe that convenient explanation isn't so far from the truth after all. Live-action gaming is a form of the ater, pure and simple. Mind you, there's no audience at a LARP, but that do esn't mean that you aren't acting when you assume the role. Acting and live-action gaming are both about playing make believe. Acting focuses exclusively on taking that 'make believe' as far as possible, while LARPers just settle for enjoying ourselves. Sure, live-action roleplaying is just a game. So is chess. So is business. So is a love affair. So is art. A game is any activity with rules and a goal and a lot of joy involved with the process. Some of the best games -like love or business -are deadly serious. the ater is as much a game as any LARP, in its own way. You just don't keep score the same way. Trust me. Ask any actor. they aren't in it for the money. Why do you think we're called 'starving artists'? Acting in a LARP and acting on stage isn't quite the same. You have to work a lot harder on your concentration in a LARP than on stage. You have more freedom -and more work -at a game than in front of the footlights. But the raw pleasure of it all is the same. When you are In Character (in capital letters), you know it, and you never for get how good it feels. It's hard to explain what that feeling is like. It's not a matter of 'for getting' yourself. You don't suddenly develop Multiple Personality Disorder. You just focus completely on the moment. for get that you're in a high school gym. for get that you're speaking in sonnets. for get that your tights itch. If you put all the se things away and concentrate -really concentrate -on being someone else for an hour, it can be magic. You're never going to 'be' that person, but you're going to be more in tune with yourself by focusing on making that role come to life. You can feel it on stage all the time. At an M E T game, it's a lot more rare, but those moments of clarity are present. The tests and the rules exist to make those magic moments when the world comes alive happen. And with a little practice, those moments happen a lot more of ten. This article is intended to help coach you through getting into character for a LARP, using some basic the ater techniques. You won't be ready to star in the Scottish play after reading the se steps, but you will find it easier to enter and stay in character if you follow the m. Before your next game, give them a try and see what happens. with any luck, you'll be able to find those In Character moments more easily, once you have an idea of how to get there. ## Eocus: P U T T I N ~ T H E DAY AWAY

The most important aspect of making a character is concentration. It's all about focus. You can't convince anybody you're an 18th century vampire if you're talking about the latest episode of Duwson's Creek or catching up on the latest gossip. Building a character takes work. If you're not concentrating on the job, it'll slip away from you. Before you start your next game, take a minute to walk away from the crowd and get yourself ready. Take A few deep breaths. Think about all the things you did today, the good and the bad. Take a moment to look at the m. the n breathe out. Put those things away. for the next couple of hours, you A few hours, right? So get serious about it. Set the day's worries aside. Above all, take your time. Leave the stuff that's outside the game, outside the game. do n'tneed toworryabout the m. You'reheretopretend tobesomeoneelsefor

The biggest distraction any actor can face is stage fright. When you start to worry about what the audience thinks about you, your concentration is shot. If you worry about what the other players think about you, you can't focus. If you can't focus, you can't do the job correctly. If you're afraid, you're afraid. That's fine. Focus on who you are and what you're do ing. Ignore the spectators. Think about what you are do ing right now. Take that fear, look at it a little bit, and the n set it on the shelf with today's troubles. You've got so me thing else to do for the next few hours. You're too busy tobe scared. there is no hurry here. Take as much time as you need to get ready. If the game starts with out you, fine. It's always better to be late and be 100 percent there, than to do a poor job. Now try so me thing really scary: Stretch. That's right, move around a bit. Roll your neck and stretch out your back. You're going to be using your body as much as your brain for the next few hours. Acting is as much a physical exercise as a mental one. You need to have both in gear. Take one more deep breath for luck. Ready? Good. All right, pick up your character and start finding a way into him. ## GETTINS STARTED: I N S I D E AND OUTSIDE there's an old story in the ater about how Dustin Hoffman and Sir Lawrence Olivier prepared for their roles in the movie Marathon Man. Sir Lawrence Olivier was playing a torturer, and Hoffman was his victim. Hoffman really got into the role he was playing: He did n't sleep forthree days before the shoot. He did n't eat the day before. The day of the shoot, he did n't bathe. finally, he showed up to the set, ready to go. Sir Lawrence Olivierwaswaitingforhim. Hestaredathis youngpartner and exclaimed, 'Good Lord! You look terrible! What on earth happened to you?' '' I starved myself for the role,' Hoffman replied groggily. Sir Lawrence stared at him a bit, and the n replied crisply: 'My dear boy. Next time try acting. It's so much easier.'

Hoffman and Olivier both had very different techniques for getting into character. Hoffman built on the 'interior technique' of acting. He put himself through some really nasty experiences to learn what it felt like to be tortured. the n he took those personal experiences to his character. The end result was a very realistic performance. (Maybe too realistic for those do wnwind of him.)

Sir Lawrence, on the other hand, used an older techniquethe 'exterior technique.' He focused on how his character moved how the tortured stood, how he walked, how he stared at Hoffman. the n he listened to what those changes in his body did to his voice and his heart, and he carried them through to the stage. The end result was just as good, and just as credible, as Hoffman's. Both techniques of fer a window into getting inside a character. So which technique is best to use in Mind's Eye the atre? Both, of course. ## € XTE R I o R TECHNIQUE

First and for emost, acting is an active process. Saying so sounds silly, but it's anundeniable basicof the art. You tell your audiencewho you are with your body. your posture defines your personality more than anything else about you. It do esn't matter how detailed your character back ground is. It do esn't matter if you tell me that you're a professional bodyguard who lived through the Punic Wars. If I don't see it in the way you walk, I don't believe you, and not hing you say can convince me. And if you can't convince me, how can you convince yourself? Actors of ten refer to their bodies as instruments. An actor 'uses his instrument' to convey a role to an audience. It sounds pretentious [or dirty, if your mind works like that], but there's a lot of truth there. with out an understanding of it, it do esn't matter how much thought and research you put into a role. If an audience do esn't see your work, you're as effective as a trombonist who hums along to the or chestra. An entire philosophy of acting, called the Alexander Technique, is devoted to this idea of acting with your body. We don't have space for the thousands of pages written about it, but here are some highlights. Try this on for size. Get up out of your chair and start walking. don't think about walking, just walk like you were getting a coke from the fridge. Okay. Now speed up a little. don't run. Just pick up the pace. Concentrate, now. don't think about how silly you may look, just do it. While you're walking, think about how you're standing. When you walk through the do or to the kitchen, what's the first part of your body that passes the do or frame? No, it's not your feet -not unless you're taking giant steps. Odds are it's your nose or your hips or your stomach. What happenswhen you leadwithyourchin?do n'tstickout Like you were taking a punch, just think about leading with your chin. Keep it small. Turn around. When you turn, what part of your body turns first? Try to move in such a way that your chin is the first thing that moves when you decide to hang a left into the kitchen. Clench your jaw. Swing your arms. Clench your fists. Unclench the m. Swing your head from side to side, like you were working a kink in your back out. Stop. How do you feel? If you said 'Angry,' that's good. You paid attention to what your body wastelling you. Congratulations. You just acted. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

A lot of times, you can slip right into a role just by concentrating on how a character moves. Bodyguards, scholars and slaves all stand still in completely different ways. If you pay attention to this aspect of your character, you'll go a long way toward getting into his shoes. Body language is absolutely crucial for the more animalistic roles in the World of Darkness, like those of the Garou. Do you want to play a lupus-breed were wolf? Do yourself a favor. Plant yourself in front of the Discovery Channel. Watch wolves for an hour or two. A wolf moves in a certain way. He reacts in a certain way. How do you take your two-legged body and make yourself move like that wolf on the television screen? Try it and find out. Eventually, you'll never have to say, ''I'm a lupus,' to other players. they'll know before you can say a word. Show the other players what you are. One of the worst sins you can commit at a game is to raise your fingers and explain yourself. don't say, 'You can see that I'mreallybeatenup.'do n'tsay, 'you can see that I'mfurious.'Show the se things! How do es someone move When they've been beaten to a pulp? How do you look at someone when you're ready to chew nails and spit baling wire? Part of you probably knows. At some time in your life, you've been that bruised. You've probably been that angry as well. Feel those feelings all over again, and let your fellow gamers see it. The fewer times you have to step out of character, the stronger your character will be. Before you enter your next game, spend some time thinking about how your character moves. How do es he walk? Is he sneaky? Lead with your nose. Is he arrogant? Lead with your chin. Try as many things as you like. don't just think about the se mannerisms, try the m. If you are sitting in a chair pondering all of this stuff, you've missed the point. Costuming helps a great deal in figuring out the body language of your character. An evening gown for ces you move in a certain way. So do es a tuxedo or a pair of blue jeans or a do ublet and hose. It's hard to slouch in a tuxedo or gown. You have to keep your back straight. As a result, you look more for mal. And if you look for mal, you feel more for mal. Incorporate those restrictions into your character's movement. Every small cue informs your character choices; they all help you decide what do es and do esn't fit in your game play. Now that you've got your character up on its feet, it's time to turn your brain on and start thinking through your role. ## I N T E R I O R TECHNIQUE

Start going over your character history at this point. Run it through your head like a good movie or a slideshow. Pick three events from your character history that you consider important. Take a good look at those important moments. Play them back in your head. Go into detail. What did you see? What did you hear? What did you smell? What did you touch? Try and drag all five senses into the mix. ' T r y and really immerse yourself into the moment, at least for now. Now start taking a peek into your character's head. What was he feeling when the se things happened? Let's say that your character's father was killed By the Sabbat. How would that make your character feel? Angry? Sure. How about afraid? After all, your father was far more powerful than you were once. How about disappointed? You always thought your dad was stronger than this. How about happy? What did your father do to you that would make you happy to see him dead? Hmmm... Maybe some answers are right. Maybe some aren't. But ask every question you can, even the ones you think are wrong. Maybe you'll be surprised. People are capable of the most amazing things sometimes. don't settle for the easy answers. Above all, avoid saying no. Consider everything. Try everything. You owe it to yourself to look at every option. One of the greatest joys about this hobby is that you can be absolutely anyone or anything. You owe it to yourself to explore every possibility, even the ones that you wouldn't normally all ow yourself to look at twice. Now that you've explored the se emotions in your character, try and link them to your own experiences in the world. It do esn't matter if your character is a centuries old vampire or a bloodthirsty were wolf or what ever. You've had feelings and experiences that are similar to that creature. If it was impossible to empathize with a character, he'd be boring. If you can imagine a character, you can step into his shoes. It's just a matter of trying. there are no such things as aliens In this world, only strangers. Maybe your parents haven't been killed by anybody, but have you experienced the feelings that your character felt when his father was killed? Can youremember what it was like to be afraid for you father? When were you angry with your father? Were you ever disappointed with your father? What did those things feel like? Think of those moments. Think of your character history. Splice them to get her. Now you've really got material to work with. A lot of material has been written about this internal technique for acting. It's called the Stanislavsky Technique, and again, we don't have a thousand pages to discuss it. The material you've got here is a good start, how ever. don't be afraid to take risks, to make choices, and to ask questions. there are no wrong answers here -only answers that you're afraid to try. Dare it. Try the m. Remember, it's only a game. The world of make believe is a wonderful place to explore your heart. As long as you keep the line between fantasy and reality strong, you can find some amazing things. One fin al not e: Make sure that your character's Nature and Demeanor agree with the choices you've made about the character so far. You'll be using those two little words as a touchstone for your character's innermost desires as the game goes on. don't be surprised if, after all this work, you find that the character's Nature is completely different from what you thought it was going to be. When you start on a creative process like this, it tends to develop a direction all its own. Change it around until the Nature and Demeanor fit again, and get ready to move on. ## TAKINC~ ACTION: ACTINC~ with in the ~

## A M E

So, you feel like you're getting into character. You're ready to get into the game. Good. Now the work really begins. Acting applies to your body, and it applies to your mind. When you start playing the game, you need to make an active choice about what you're going to get do ne that night. We make choices every day, most of which aren't terribly important. We decide what to have for lunch. We decide what to wear. the ater, and acting, is all about making choices too. Big choices. The bigger, the better. Hamlet isn't deciding on lunch, he's deciding whether he should kill himself or murder his stepfather. The choices you make need to be active choices, things that other people can see and hear, so that they can react to your actions and make the story happen. What do es your character want tonight? Before you answer that question, keep the following guideline in mind: don't answer in the passive tense. Acting is an active process, remember? your goal can't be 'stay alive.' That's boring. Try the goal 'kill anyone who tries to hurt me.' Or maybe even 'run away from anyone who tries to hurt me.' As long as you have so me thing for your character to do, you're in good shape. How about the goal 'become prince'? Try harder. Become is a pretty passive word. How about the goal 'kill the old prince,' or 'discredit the old prince'? Those active goals are much better. Make sure that your choice is informed by all the work that you've do ne so far. don't choose to kill the prince for the heck of it. Choose it if your character wants it, for reasons all his own. And don't be afraid to set impossible goals for yourself. It's the choice that is important here, not your success or failure. your goal, as a player, is to create the most interesting story you can tonight. your character's goal should be chosen with that fact firmly in mind. Keep the choices big. don't make your goal for the evening 'get an ice cream cone.' That's too easy. Once you get it, you'll be stuck for so me thing to do fortherest of the evening. A good story involves a big decision. Big decisions entail big risks. Never settle for second best. do n Quixote did n't become a librarian or a writer, he set out to restore the lost age of chivalry. Be ambitious in setting your goals. Even if your character fails in his quest, you won't have failed to tell an epic story. Stuck? Try looking at your character's Nature and Demeanor. your character wants so me thing very specific from life. If his Nature is Bravo, he wants to scare people. If it's Judge, he wants to find the truth. your character's Demeanor lets you know how the character gets the things his Nature demands. If your Nature is Bravo, and your Demeanor is Critic, you may want to ruin someone's self esteem by criticizing her at every turn. When all else fails, use your Nature and Demeanor as the touchstones for your character's desires. don't become obsessed with this one goal, how ever, unless your character is thusly deranged. Goals can change during the course of a game. You can want different things. You can even want completely opposite things. After all, every vampire wants to let the Beast out, but at the same time, he wants to keep it in check. That internal conflict is a great way to bring depth and excitement to your character. Be ready to go with major course changes When they happen. You can never anticipate everything that can happen to a character. You can only react. What if your goal conflicts with another player's goal? Good. That's what good roleplaying is all about. A conflict lies at the heart of all good the ater. Every single stagedproduction you can thinkof (from No Exit to Wrestlemania) has a struggle of some kind in it. You get involved in LARPs to stage a production and tell a story, and conflict is what makes that story work. If your goal conflicts with another player's goal, try your damnedest to get your way. You have every option in the book open to you -you can beg, you can whimper, you can threaten, you can bribe, and you can even kill. But don't back do wn. At least, don't back do wn until a more important goal comes across your path. Most people try to suppress conflict in real life. they get along with their coworkers and their friends, so that we can all survive the day smoothly. You aren't required to play nice in the World of Darkness. don't be afraid to stop playing nice and go for the jugular. (Figuratively speaking, of course.)

When you're playing a supernatural creature like a vampire or a were wolf, you have a lot of freedom. You can go to extremes that human beings can never dream of. The anger of a were wolf is legendary. The passions of a vampire dwarf regular emotions. When you play one of the se characters, you have every right to jump in with both feet. don't hold back or make a halfhearted choice. don't like so me thing if you can love it. don't love it if you can obsess over it. And don't dislike so me thing. Hate it. your choices need to be as bold and strong as possible. The more you try for so me thing, the stronger your character will be for it. This last piece of advice comes with a very strong caveat, how ever: don't for get to respect thereal world around you. don't bellow your inhuman fury at the top of your lungs if you're in a banquet hall filled with people who aren't playing. If not hing else, remember that every supernatural wants to keep his or her nature hidden, for some very good reasons. More to the point, how ever, you need to keep the flow of the game going. If everyone has to step out of character to calm do wn irate hotel clerks and mothers, the n all of that drama gets wasted. the ater only works when you have the trust of your fellow actors. If the other players worry constantly that you'll disrupt the event and for ce everyone to break character, they'll have a much harder time involving the mselves in your work. ## MIND'SEYE the ATBE JOURNAL

After the game's over, ask yourself this question: Did I achieve my goal! More importantly, did I have a good time? Now think ahead to the next game. What will be your goal the n? How about the game after that? How about over the next year? Be ambitious, and be bold. there are no bad choices, only halfhearted ones. ## Ein aL not ES: COVERINC~THE ODD MOMENTS there are a lot of oddities to acting in a LARP the demand some specific advice. 'Real' the ater rarely goes into masscombat, after all. Here are some tips about the little pitfalls your characters can fall into, and how to make the best role-play possible out of the m. Combat is inevitable in every LARP. If you've been serious about chasing your goals thus far, it's very likely that your character will end up throwing a punch at someone at some point. Remember to keep roleplaying your character even as he's fighting for his life. It's hard to keep character in mind while you're juggling numbers in the back of your head, but keep focused. Above all, sell the combat with your words and with your body. Combat can be fun. It's exciting imaging your character performing stunts that make Jet Li in Romeo Must Die look like Marlon Brando in The Freshman. Long sessions of Rock Paper-Scissors, how ever, are not fun. Focus on the story, not the hand signals. Describe what your character is do ing as much as possible. Paint the scene for your opponent and your audience. If you can mime out your character's actions (with out engaging in stunts u r touching other people), do so. Remember that the safety of those around you is always more important than the game. Above all, try to get out of turns and into real time as soon as possible. In the course of a game, it's very likely that you'll have a character die. Accept this fact and keep going. It can be very painful to lose a character that you've spent a lot of time and energy creating, but at the same time, there's not hing more powerful to play -either on stage or in a LARP -than a good, juicy death scene. If you have chased your goals as character with such devotion that you can only choose between their success and your character's death, you've do ne very well as an actor in live-action play. If your character chooses death at the fin al hour, you've built a story that will change the nature of your chronicle for years. Remember, the goal of this game isn't to build a nice, safe character that lives to a ripe old age. If that were the case, we'd play couch potatoes, not vampires were wolves. You're here to tell the most exciting story you can. don't be afraid to risk everything your character has for the sake of making the story sing. In the same vain, don't be afraid to let your character fail occasionally. Failure is a powerful motivator for change. Characters that change are always more interesting to watch and play. don't avoid plotting treachery against the prince just because you know as a player that some obfuscated spy is watching you. Let yourself fail. Have fun fighting with the consequences. Remember, your job as a player is not necessarily to succeed in the goal you set for your character. Rather, it's to tell the most compelling story you can in the course of the night. Occasionally, that means letting the opposition win. It'll make your eventual come back and victory that much sweeter. A number of powers in Mind's Eye the atre can for ce you to play your character very differently from normal. do min ate, Dementation and blood bonds can alter your character's deepest emotions in ways you'd never anticipate. don't fight the se changes. T r y to embrace the m. don't be afraid to step out of character for a minute or two to walk back through your process if you need to. What do es your character want now? How is he going to get it? Remember that now supernatural power can fundamentally change who your character is. It is your choice as a player how any effect is portrayed. A blood bond might feel like the greatest love affair a character has ever known. It might also feel like the most powerful drug addiction imagin able. Is your character a lover or a junkie? The choice is ultimately yours. Trust your fellow players. they're here to tell the best story they can tonight, just like you. If you cooperate, you'll be much more successful. Remember that while characters might but t heads, players can always make the conflict more interesting if they work in harmony. Sometimes you're the hero in your own story. Sometimes you're the supporting character in someone else's tale. Share the spotlight with good grace. finally, remember the most important questions anyone can ask about the ater: 'Who cares? So What?' Why should you bother being a vampire? Who cares about were wolves? the ater only works if it moves and changes its audience somehow. In a live-action game, you are your own audience. It's very legitimate to say that you're do ing all this work just to be entertained. In fact, that should always be the first goal of any game. how ever, don't be surprised if, after trying on all of the se different goals and emotions, you find that you have changed and moved yourself somehow. An actor's only real reward for his work is the applause of the audience at the end of the show. When the game's over, put the character away. Applaud yourself. Take your bow. Think about what you've do ne this night. Who knows... Perhaps you'll have found that playing a monster for a night has taught you so me thing new about being human. ## HFRFTICAL DHARMAS by Peter Woodworth

Given the fulfillment of our wishes, we'd cram every ounce of information we could into each book White Wolf publishes. how ever, conservation of space (and trees) of ten for bids us from do ing so. with the advent of the Journal, how ever, we can -us the buck cover proclaims -pick up where our other books leave of f. In this article, w e take a look at some of the more unusual schools of Kuei-jin thought that did n't make it into Laws of the East. the se relatively young Dharmas are rejected as heretical By the Quincunx, but many of them are gaining support in the tumultuous days of the Fifth Age as younger vampires look to make their own mark on the world. Bear in mind that such freedom from established do ctrine comes with a high price as well. Finding teachers for the se paths is seldom easy, and open followers of the se paths can expect cold welcomes (at best) when it comes to dealing with traditional elders. Being branded akuma for espousing such radically different beliefs is never far away for Kuei-jin on the se paths, and the brightest of them never for get that this threat hangs over their heads constantly. Existing as they do outside traditional Kuei-jin astrology, Kuei-jin who follow a heretical Dharma do not receive a lucky number for their Dharma if they purchase the Horoscope back ground. Such is the price of following such an unorthodox route. ## THE ELAMEOETHE RISINC~ PHOENIX

## VIRTUE: HUNAND Y A N ~

Not all vampires believe that they are set do wn on the Road Back in order to for ge a new identity for the mselves. Some believe that their responsibility lies in finishing the tasks they failed to accomplish during their breathing days; to set right what so obviously wouldn't let them rest the first time. thereasoning is sound enough to their minds. If life was so short on karma that the Kuei-jin had to return to life once more, the n do esn't it make sense that their old lives should be the focus of their renewed attentions? The abilities of the Kuei-jin are only tools that they are meant to use in order to set their lives straight once more, and Phoenixes struggle hard to over come their P'os and rejoin the world of their living relatives. At first, many of them are surprisingly successful, acting as guardian angels over the ones they considered dear to them in life and settling old accounts left unpaid on their death. Even the most jaded elder harbors the kind of thoughts that drive this Dharma, of returning to his family home or visiting his old love once more. This secret sympathy is perhaps the only reason that this Dharma is merely scorned and not actively hunted. how ever, try as they might, the compassion and optimism of the Phoenixes inevitably fades as time goes by. Relatives die, times change, and sometimes the Kuei-jin herself is even responsible for some great family

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL tragedy (usually committed during a period of shadow soul). Such events can unhinge even the most devoted members of this Dharma unless they possess absolute devotion to the ir cause, and after a time most Phoenixes are far more pragmatic than idealistic when it comes to restoring harmony to the ir old lives. Many also start looking for a bigger picture, tending to larger groups of mortals and sheltering the m from the dark indulgences of other shen. they go from viewing the ir own lives as the key to the ir redemption to seeing all human life as necessary to achieve enlightenment. Make no mistake, though. the se Kuei-jin are unholy terrors when they feel the ir protectorates are threatened. More than one kyonshi has discovered that affinity for life and the higher soul by no means excludes warriors. The strangest thing about this Dharma is that it has produced no known bodhisattvas. As soon as they reach a certain level of enlightenment, elder Phoenixes simply disappear into thin air, and even powerful divinations can not determine the ir fate for certain. Naturally, the Quincunx and others are quick to use this fact as an example of how this Dharma must be fundamentally Ylawed' in some way or another, and they step up persecution of this Dharma accordingly. of course, the Phoenixes simply claim that it proves that the ir ways are correct. how ever, even they admit that the absence of bodhisattvas and other powerful elders makes the ir unlives more politically dangerous than those of other Kuei-jin. As for the missing elders the mselves, perhaps the Sixth Age will shed some light on the ir true fates.... Training: Phoenixes typically 'train' by spending as much time as they can among mortals, studying the ir interactions and learning what it takes both to heal the m and stir the ir imaginations. Many take to the arts in some for m or another as a means of expressing the ir hopeful sentiments to mortals at large, and the re have been more than a few fairly reputable artists in the last century who were actually counted among the members of this Dharma. ## Dharmic Strength: Bonds of Living Harmony

All Phoenixes are exceptionally attuned to mortal emotions and manners. their players receive a free retest on all Empathy and Etiquette tests with mortals. All Phoenixes also receive a free Compassionate Social Trait, which can not be lost permanently as long as they remain on this Dharma. Most Phoenixes go to great lengths to avoid injuring mortals if it is at all possible in a given situation, although they receive no special benefits for do ing so. ## Dharmic Weakness: Tending or chids

Phoenixes are do omed to lose the mselves among the teeming masses of humanity, where the ravages of the Demon, the hunger and more eventually take their toll on those the Kuei-jin cares about. As a result, most Phoenixes choose one person in particular they wish to shelter from the ravages of their new condition. they are extremely loyal guardians, but any harm to this chosen mortal brings do wn the terrible wrath of the Phoenix. All Phoenixes must take the Flaw: Ward, representing a close friend or family member from their mortal days who m they are especially dedicated to protecting. they are two Traits up on any challenge to resist harming this individual, but their increased attention toward one mortal inevitably draws the not ice of enemies will ing to use the ward asa pawn. Iftheward is harmed, the Phoeniximmediatelyentersfire soul(no test possible). Even once this fire soul passes, the Phoenix is distracted (and two

Traits do wn on all Social Tests) until she has taken suitable revenge against the one who dared to harm her chosen mortal. Should the ward die, another must be chosen with in a month. This cycle of pain and protection can not end short of reaching dah. ## TENETS: - 1: Return to the world from which you came. - 2: Repay the debts of your human life. - 3: Help others to find the unique value of humanity. - 4: Fight the Demon and deny monstrosity. - 5: Live not with extremes or balance, but simply well. - 6: Wake the sleeper who shuns experience. Life is the arising of experiences. - 7: Never deny the joys and sorrows of life. - 8: Return to your mortal ways; seek your human state. Concepts: Shopkeeper, public servant, professor, student, poet, artist

Affiliations: Mankind, the color gold and the east direction. Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Birds of paradise, clear skies, celebrations of birth, spinning tops, kites

Quote: 'Why return to this world, only to ignore it?'

## THE T E M ~ E S T O E INWARD Eocus

## VIRTUE: BALANCE

All the universe is a system of push and pull, give and take. It should make sense, the n, that some vampires are dedicated to finding the perfection at the center of such eternal reactions. Kuei-jin who follow the Tempest Dharma are models of diversity and singular function in one stroke; their wide interests matched only By their hunger for knowledge. where as the Rootless Trees approach Balance as a matter of finding lessons by hopping from life to life, Tempests prefer to sit in the well of the chaos that is creation and draw their experiences from the storm swirling all around the m. Other Kuei-jin have trouble puzzling their ways through the mysterious facades of the Tempests, unable to reconcile how Tempests can take tea with demons one day and dance in the halls of Heaven the next. for the Tempests, how ever, such seeming contradiction only underscores the found at i on of their Dharma -that enlightenment exists in the void between two poles. Like the Rootless Trees who share their Dharmic Virtue, the Tempests are invariably wanderers either in truth or in ideal, always pushing on to another goal in hopes of rounding out their soul ever more completely. All things are worthy of study, say the Tempests, but only if one remembers that study to the exclusion of all else is to deny the magnificence of creation itself. This is not to say that the Tempests lack focus; quite the contrary, in fact. When a Kuei-jin of this Dharma expresses an interest in a subject, he spares little expense to track

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL do wn everything he can about it until he becomes a master in his field. Existence may be a matter of moderation to the followers of Balance, but not hing said it had to be moderation born of mediocrity! Indeed, many Tempests strive constantly to raise the ir personal bars higher and higher, and a piece of information never leaves the ir hands once it passes the ir way. the se Kuei-jin simply strive not to overbalance the mselves in one are a or another. Ultimately, the Tempests strive to find what lies in between mortal and vampire, spirit and matter, and this quest eventually leads the m away from the material, elemental aspects of Kuei-jin society and into deep contemplation of the mysteries of the Kuei-jin soul. Many elder Tempests are masters of arts that all ow for introspection and spiritual education, and they puzzle constantly about matters both large and small concerning the undead condition and its relation to the universe around the m. the ir mastery of a multitude of subjects aside, the se masters claim to be searching for what lies beyond the gateway of enlightenment. If the riddles and koans of this Dharma are correct, they surmise, the answer can be not hing less than the universe itself, and so they seek to become one with all things by denying any strong ties to a particular object or condition. Training: Most Tempests fit nicely in the Western conception of a 'Renaissance thinker.' they strive to master a wide variety of skills, from mundane labor to hidden occult lore to one more Kuei-jin Discipline. the refore, the ir training is an eclectic affair designed to expose the m to many different subjects but immerse the m innone, all owing the m to choose the ir destiny freely. Great measures are taken to balance the for ces of Yin and Yang simmering beneath the Kuei-jin's skin, and while they take pains to study the Hun and its devotion to duty, Tempests also probe and develop the Demon carefully. Some think the Tempests are shallow, drinking deeply of not hing, but such moderation is what all ows the m to have the proper perspective between the clashing for ces of the universe. ## Dharmic Strength: Eye of the Storm

Existing as they do in an unlife of moderation and temperance, the Tempests are capable of remarkable feats of restraint when called for. Once per session, the Tempest's player may receive a free retest on any fire, wave or shadow soul Test, making the Tempest much less likely to fly of f the handle than their more temperamental brethren. ## Dharmic Weakness: Faintly Fading Winds

Paradoxical as it seems, excessive moderation can do as much harm to the soul as overindulgence can, and the Tempests are prime examples of this principle in action. While their Dharma may espouse for bearance, many Tempests become reactionary after a while, moving one step behind the world because they are too cautious to really embrace the chances that are given to the m. Because of their hesitant ways, all Tempests receive the Negative Trait: Predictabk, which can not be bought of f short of reaching dah. Furthermore, any time the character feels he has overindulged in a particular activity, it ruins his careful sense of balance. When such occasions come to pass, the Tempest is one Trait do wn on all challenges until such time as he has properly atoned for the indulgence with activities like long meditation or for bearance of material goods. The Storyteller may enforce this penalty if the player do es not. ## TENETS: - 1: Pull all things near and make them part of yourself. - 2: Balance the needs and desires on all poles, that they strive against each other. - 3: Never stray from the core of your nature. - 4: Realize the potential to learn from all people. - 5: Remember the lessons of the past. Apply them to the future. - 6: Be consistent in your rewards and punishments. - 7: Teach others the virtues of peace and moderation. - 8: Bring harmony to the spirit worlds though balancing the living realm. Concepts: Ascetic, monk, teacher, servant, philosopher, laborer, poet, lunatic

Affiliations: The material world, the color gray and the center direction. Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Cyclones, mindless spiral helixes, ex- ploding fireworks, ripples in water. Quote: 'The view from the center of the storm is the most breathtaking of all.'

## THE EACEOFTHE SODS

VIRTUE: HUNAND p'o

Not all Kuei-jin accept that they are being punished for some transgression. Indeed, some Kuei-jin look on their new state with hope and reverence, sure that they have been chosen by Heaven for some great destiny. The followers of the Face of the Gods Dharma are prime examples of the latter philosophy. the se Kuei-jin see the mselves as souls who once attained godhood, but the n fell to a lesser status once more due to some great error. According to the Divine Faces, their new state is proof that they were once so me thing more than mere mortal; that their death was just a transition state, and that it is their joss to reclaim the title of gods once more. After all, the Godlings reason, why else would they have been given another chance in a form so assuredly marked by signs of godhood, but at the same time is riddled with so many temptations as well? This new life must be a test of some kind, a training ground for the place in Heaven they are meant to achieve -and woe to the poor being who stands in the way of a Godling along the road to the Celestial Ministry! The unlives of the se bizarre and eerily compelling Kuei-jin center around the nature of godly contradictions. they meditate ceaselessly on how their nature stands -barely glimpsed omniscience side by side with the darkest lusts outside of Yomi -and think of ways to combine and strengthen both sides with out losing oneself to either total duty or the Demon. To their minds, the Divine Faces must search out the source of this conflict between in sat i able evil and infinite compassion and over come it if they wish to reclaim their godhood. Thus, they must experiment with all manner of situations and ideals in the hopes of finding the right way to unite their disparate halves once more. Other Kueijin are of ten fooled into thinking that the Godlings seek some sort of blissful transformation of their undead state. Such nalve vampires change their minds

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL quickly when the Divine Face decides to explore the nature of demonic fury. Godlings do the ir best to be the best in ways both wise and wicked, and they make no secret of the fact that they will demonstrate either side of the ir personality as they see fit, Demon or not! According to the sacred texts of the Divine Faces -the Red Book of the Iron Bndge and The Celestial Nail -the Heavens can be restored to the ir for mer glory only by the return of the gods who have lost the ir way. The Godlings have no intention of disappointing. Given the openness with which they hold the ir natures, it is unsurprising to discover that many Divine Faces have mortal cults flourishing around the m, which the Faces administer with all the grace and horror that befits the ir divine status. (It takes a rare mortal to deny a god that walks among the m bestowing favors and influence in exchange for mere worship!) Not that most Godlings truly care about the ir 'parishioners.' Such mortals are a means to the end of returning to Heaven once more, a font of Chi waiting to be tapped. Indeed, even in the relatively tolerant world of the Middle Kingdom, many Kuei-jin meet Godlings for the first time while carrying out a court mission to or der the Godlings to stop demonstrating the ir powers in public. of course, such actions are perfectly reasonable to the ir minds. When one aspires to godhood, after all, who cares if the mortals catch a glimpse of your power along the way? Training: The training of Divine Faces tends to be abrupt and to the point. Another Godling finds the Kuei-jin and instructs him in the lessons of reincarnation, divinity, deific values and the need to embrace both sin and virtue in or der to reclaim the favor of Heaven and return once more. Many Godlings are also taught the nuances of etiquette and courtly manners during this time. The Kuei-j in must present the mselves as not hing less than divine! ## Dharmic Strength: Mantle of Godhood

The Godlings are not hing if not majestic, and they learn early on how to project a for midable otherworldly aura to the lesser beings around them when necessary. Sometimes this face is full of the Divine Radiance of Heaven; sometimes it is the Eyes of Hell. Either way, theresults are bound to impress. The Godling may use each visage once per story. Divine Radiance requires a Yang Trait to activate, while the Eyes of Hell requires a Trait of Demon Chi. When Divine Radiance is active, the Kuei-jin receives the Traits Compassionate, Commanding and M a g n e t i c fortheremainder of the scene, as well as a free retest on all Social Tests related to empathy and courtly grace. By contrast, the Eyes of Hell is treated the same as the Delirium (see the Demon Shintai Discipline in Laws of the East for details), sending mortals scurrying or cowering in terror before the anger of the Godling. ## Dharmic Weakness: Vanity of the Lotus

Convinced of their own perfection, Godlings can be absolutely insufferable company at times, particularly around those they consider to be 'lesser beings' (i. e., everyone but the m). Divine Faces receive a permanent Condescending Negative Trait, and they are one Trait do wn to resist fire soul when it's directly sparked By the actions of a lesser being. The Godlings find it difficult to control the mselves When they discover that 'mere mortals and other rabble' are still capable of upsetting their carefully laid plans. - 1: Develop your divine nature. - 2: Expand both godly and demonic consciousness. - 3: Accept the veneration of mortals, but answer their prayers in return. - 4: Harness Chi to bring divinity back to your dead form. - 5: Act according to the tenets of your Godly Voice, and your Godly Desire shall be fulfilled. - 6: Visit the Heavens to remember what you have lost. - 7: Practice ritual and tradition to empower your own essence. - 8: Commune with the spirits; learn of their messages from Heaven. Concepts: Priest, cultist, crimin al, magician, psychologist, traditionalist, venerated ancestor, wacko

Affiliations: The heavenly realms, the color violet and the south direction Auspicious Omens and Symbols: Temple ceremonies, stands of burning incense and can dles, shooting stars

Quote: 'Perfection is my birthright, wisdom my key. What else do I need?'

## THE SPIRITOFTHE LIVING €ARTH

## VIRTUE: YINAND Y A N ~

While every Kuei-jin recognizes the existence of spirits and pays homage (or at least lip service) to the ethereal world, some Kuei-jin return along the Road Back convinced that they have been given the gifts of spirit-sight in order to fulfill the wishes of the spirits they of ten ignored in life. the se Kuei-jin strive to bring balance to the natural world and peace to the shades of the departed, though typically more of the for mer than the latter, since the Bone Flowers are quite jealous of their trade with the dead. Early in their new existence, the Kuei-jin come across the staggering array of spirits in the world and recognize their wisdom, humbling the mselves before the mighty lords of the Mirror Lands and seeking to serve the Earth as best they can. While Kuei-jin of animistic backgrounds under stand and respect the goals of the Cerulean Veils, many others consider them either harmless eccentrics or dangerous eco-terrorists, depending on the individual in question, but the truth lies so me where in between. Veils move in a strange and beautiful world, keeping the taboos of the spirits (which helps to explain a lot of their peculiar reputation) while tending to the mundane concerns of the environment around the m. Following such guidelines means appeasing the spirits, and appeasing the spirits means another bit of the world will be explained for the vampire -no small payment in an existence fraught with open questions and seeming philosophical dead-ends! the se Kueijin keep only a nomin al interest in the mortal world, considering it transitory and unimportant next to the energies of the earth itself. they typically interact with modem society only in order to feed or when the spirits command them to do so. Other Kuei-jin sometimes see the se vampires as little more than slaves to the whims of the Mirror Lands, but that concept is overly simplistic. Cerulean Veils follow the dictates of the spirits because that is what they feel is expected

## TENETS: ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL of the m in the ir new unlives. To the m, such obedience is no more absurd than expecting a child to obey its parents. Even when they do enter into regular society, the Veils are of ten marked by a kind, otherworldly air. While they are more than capable of defending the mselves and the spirits they hold dear, most Veils typically have so little concern for the perils of the mortal world that they refuse to arm the mselves against it as others do. In the dark days of the Fifth Age, how ever, more and more Veils are being called into the modem world to right wrongs do ne to the ir beloved spirits and even to defend the land against those who would defile it. As such, they are becoming a more and more common sight in courts across the Middle Kingdom. Ancestors debate the value of all owing the se wise Kuei-jin into the ir courts to battle the Yama Kings against the threat presented by the loyalty the se Kuei-jin give to the spirit worlds over the ir fellow undead. For the ir part, the Veils seek only what they always have: an Earth in balance and an unlife guided by the will of the spirits. Training: the se Kuei-jin place agreat deal of emphasis on ritual, ceremony and the observance of taboos. how ever, aside from some basic grounding on different is sues, each Veil is generally left to his own devices when it comes to inventing rites to use and learning the ways of the spirit worlds. This individuality serves only to confuse other Kuei-jin further, since -while every Veil follows an elaborate system of chants and rituals -no two members of this Dharma do things quite the same way! ## Dharmic Strength: Clasping Hands with Heaven

Attuned as they are to the invisible world, Veils gain several potent benefits when it comes to dealing with spirits and the spirit worlds. First of all, Veils ignore the first level of not or iety they may receive every story automatically, as their reputation with the spirits defuses what would normally be a hostile situation. Veils are up two Traits on all Social Tests with spirits except demons and other creatures of Yomi. finally, the Veils receive a free level of the Rites back ground due to their ritualistic upbringing. ## Dharmic Weakness: Lost In the Mists

Absorbed as they are in the spirit worlds, Veils have trouble relating to mortals, and they are two Traits do wn on all Social Tests with mortals unless they have known the person in question for at least one story. they even have trouble dealing with others of their own kind, and they are one Trait do wn on all Social Tests with unfamiliar Kuei-jin. finally, the special place the se Kueijin hold in the eyes of some spirits only marks them in the eyes of others. Yomi spirits always make it their special task to attack, harass and otherwise badger the se Kuei-jin above any others in the are a. ## TENETS: - 1: Obey the will of the spirits. - 2: Perform the proper ceremonies to remain pure. - 3: Shun the defiled. - 4: Tread across the Earth to absorb its full glory. - 5: Pass wisdom to others freely. - 6: Help others to surpass the shortcomings of the flesh. - 7: Renew your than ks and commitment to enlightenment each day. - 8: Observe your taboos rigidly, that you may over come your curse. ~ ~~\_\_\_\_\_\_

Concepts: Wanderer, ritualist, competitor, fang shih

Affiliations: The spirit realms, the color blue and west direction

Auspicious Omens and Svmbols: Shrines and statuettes. tea ceremonies. torii arches, sacred groves and ponds, parades shame that mortals have for gotten such a glorious heritage.' Quote: 'Between Yin and Yang, Heaven and Earth, lies humanity. It is a

## PURPLE

## ~ E H E N N A WEARSA DRESS TONIC~HT by Ed Spymoun

This story i s a LARPer's cautionary tale in the truest sense. Once youread through to the chilling, world-altering fin ale, you'll see why. ## Vague Threats

Uglyface Johnson loved the frog pond. Each night, before the Licks oozed out of Dallas and for t Worth to buy his secrets, Uglyface studied himself in the pond's mirrored surface. there were many Nosferatu In this unattractive metropolis; they all hated their reflections. The Nosferatu looked over his should er. He did n't want Iron Teeth Mc Ginty to walk up and witness his vanity. Uglyface's reflection smiled at him, and he smiled back. He saw the spots on his face, mottled in such interesting patterns. And his reflection was trying to tell him so me thing he couldn't quite make out. Uglyface sounded out the words with the ripples of the water. 'You... must... taste... as... good as... as... you look.'

He expected his reflection to spring out of the water and suck him do wn, but his Fin al Death came at him from behind instead. Uglyface felt the blood draining from his stomach. He looked do wn at the row of claws jutting from his belly just below his heart. Wooden fingernails. Uglyface remembered what his sire had told him about wooden fingernails. He saw teeth, the n blackness. His mouth tasted like ash; the n there was only beauty. A vague darkness near oblivion; a beauty greater than his own. ## Information Networks

King Roachman studied his appearance in the mirror. He centered his monocle, sweeping the flakesofcrusty face-skin away with a brush. His foot-long fingers knotted his tie, moving like spider legs. The do or to Roachman's have n slammed shut as someone who was invisible but now wasn't entered. 'Ready for a night of wining and dining with the undead of Dallas?'

Roachman went back to his tie. 'Hello, Mc Ginty. Glad you're coming with me. No one's gonna try anything stupid with you there.'

'I've got some juicy information to sell tonight anyway. Have you heard from Uglyface?'

'Nope. Is he missing now too? Lots of us have turned up missing lately, according to my sources. You think so me body's of fing Nosferatu? Maybe those hunter fellows I've been hearing about from my sources?'

I

'I guess. Glad I stood him up last night. I was busy in my occult library reading up on the Wan Xian.'

Roachman remembered the meeting because he had set it up himself. Uglyface and Mc Ginty were supposed to meet Hortense's little crippled friend tonight after the Elysium meeting at the community center. A week prior -at the previous Elysium meeting -they were supposed to hammer out some lies to keep the cripple's mistress of f their backs. No big deal that the prelimin ary meeting with Uglyface did n't happen, though. 'Go ahead and take the meeting with that wheelchair fellow and tell him there's a new BSD hive in Sherman,' Roachman said. 'That should keep Hortense jumping at shadows for a while. You know how she's always trying to fight the designs of the Wyrm.'

Roachman finished tying his tie, and he and Iron Teeth set out into the tunnels. Mc Ginty protested that the king's route would take for ever, the n suggested taking the tunnel up to Grapevine the n going southwest straight into the city. Roachman did n't want to use that tunnel because he did n't want to walk into Elysium with the shit of the cattle all over his shoes. their route decided, Roachman and Mc Ginty crawled deep beneath the city, past Roachman's traps and ghouled albino all igators, deep into the earthen tunnels of the Nosferatu of Dallas in nights long for gotten. '(Who you think's of fing us, Roachman?'

'Not sure. This is a rough town to be Nosferatu. Everyone's got a thing against us. What's one Sewer Rat more or less? That mage up from New or leans says the Gauntlet was all fucked up at the pond. He thinks so me thing hopped out of the Umbra and ate Uglyface.'

'HOW'S he know that?'

'True Magic is beyond my grasp, the mage told me. He said the monster had an Old and Hungry Resonance, though.'

Roachman squinted his tiny little eyes and peered left and right, not remembering which way to turn. Mc Ginty sorted through all the creatures in the world of darkness that they inhabited, trying to imagine what kind might have such a Resonance. 'It's not... one of the m, is it?'

'Oh no. It couldn't be. Absolutely not. Well... maybe.'

Mc Ginty and Roachman turned right, and after stooping through a series of warrens and mazes that even the King of the Sewers could hardly navigate, they arrived in one of the storm drains beneath Plano. ('Roachman, what are we going to do about this monster from the Umbra?' 'Sell the information, I guess.'

Iron Teeth liked the sound of that. 'Maybe we could use it to solve our Hortense problem. Make sure she hears it from the rumor mill. the n, after you sell the same info to her little gimp friend tonight, she'll think it's solid. She'll throw a fit, the n the prince will get fed up and stick her out in the sun for A few minutes, if you know what I mean. We teach her how to fish, the n we watch her hang herself.'

'Good thinking, Mc Ginty.'

'But if there really is so me thing hopping out of the Umbra and eating Nosferatu, it'll wipe out the who le clan before the city handles the damage she'll cause in the me an time. You know the Brujah. they're one-manwrecking crews.'

Roachman smiled. 'You're half right, Mc Ginty. Hortense is a trouble magnet. She'll step In this big pile of do g shit, the n after she draws this thing out, our plans will come to fruition. 'But first, we must make sure the rumor makes it to her. Hurry ahead and take it to LSD.'

## Impotence and Ambition

Hortense of Clan Brujah came to Elysium to convince the Ventrue prince that Dallas needed cleaning up, and that she was just the Lick to do it. She warned him about the nascent Sabbat, she warned him about the encroaching were wolves, she told him of the rumors she'd heard in November 1999 about the hunters who se auras shined like gold. so me where during her diatribe about Nosferatu overcrowding in Dallas, she started screaming. 'Those liars! The Nos are sewer-dwelling, shit-sucking liars! And I can prove it!' the prince, for hispart, did his best to tuneherout. Justafewfeetaway, asmall crowd listened to the to read or primogen extemporize about some new form of fiction. 'The who le enterprise is do omed,' the effete to read or droned, 'because it uses a comedic structure to tell a tragic tale.' The prince couldn't keep up with the conversation because of the crackpot Brujah shouting in his ear. 'This is all very interesting, Hortense, but I still don't see why you should be sheriff.'

'I'm a Brujah.'

'We've already got a Gangrel sheriff. He's loyal even though his clan abandoned us.'

'He's a do ve. You need a Brujah hawk.'

'No I don't.'

'I've got for titude and Protean that I learned in the Sabbat before I reformed and moved to Dallas. I'm ideally suited.'

The prince did some math in his head and determined that having spent so much time learning Disciplines, Hortense could not possibly have directed her experience into learning how to use those Disciplines effectively, considering how old she was. 'I don't think that's a good idea, Hortense. Sometimes a sheriffs got to be a diplomat instead of a cop. I'm not sure you possess the vision necessary to enforce our Traditions.'

Hortense rolled her eyes. 'Fuck all that. The only way to keep us safe is to kill anyone who threatens the Masquerade. You might as well name me sheriff because that's already what I do. with out me and my all y, Stumpy, this who le town would've met its Fin al Death long ago.'

The prince pretended to not ice so me thing across the room and started walking away. 'Oh look. I think that's Ludovici waving to you. Go see what he wants, and I'll be content to consider what you've told me tonight.'

Hortense looked over at Ludo. The Malkavian wasn't waving to her at all, but staring at some stranger in a purple dress. Hortense put aside her clan's longstanding hatred for all Malkavians and approached her demented friend. ## Dialogue Is Not Action

so me where amid the swirls of the auras and tracers left By the drama of Elysium, Ludovici Sinistrati D'Ameno tasted a familiar voice. 'Ludo?'

Ludovici continued looking at the strange Kindred in the purple dress. Hortense's aura was a deep purple, just like the stranger's dress. Ludovici's irredeemable madness suggested that there must be some connection. The stranger seemed oddly familiar with the prince as well, although she had never met the Ventrue before tonight. 'L&amp;! '

Hortense was talking to him. How best to explain what he was do ing? In his madness, he heard her staring at him. He remembered that he had so me thing to tell her. 'Ludo? What the fuck are you do ing?'

Ludovici fled his perceptions and returned his sight to therealm of Waking. He smiled at Hortense as ifhe had just not iced her. Her glare scared the look from his face. He looked do wn at his shoes and mumbled. 'I'm a weird cat,' he said. 'I try not to romanticize it.'

'Are you swimming in auras again?'

'Yeah. I saw a good one, but it confused me.'

The Malkavian could tell Hortense was pissed of f about so me thing. That was always a safe assumption with her, considering how hot-blooded her clan was. She glowered about the room, edging closer to him. 'The prince is trying to fire me again,' she whispered. 'there's no time forthat now. I've heard so me thing. so me thing big.'

Ludovici was disappointed that this provocative statement had n't cheered her up. Still, he told her about his conversation with Iron Teeth Mc Ginty. Just after sundown, they'd both arrived at Elysium. In exchange for a small boon, he told her, Mc Ginty had told him about the disappearance of several Nosferatu. so me thing from the Umbra was up to no good. Again. 'The End Times are here, just like it says in the Book of Nod, Ludo,' Hortense said. 'This thing from the Umbra, this thing killing Nosferatu, is clearly one of the Nictuku.'

''I think that's a pretty crazy the or y, Hortense.'

'Good God, man, it's the only one that makes sense! That clan is complicit in its own destruction.'

Ludo all owed his perceptions to catch up to him, and he swam back into the auras. Somehow, it was no defense against Hortense's designs. She was sucking him in like she did every time. Why did she have to have such an interesting aura? 'Here's what we do, Ludo: We kidnap Iron Teeth Mc Ginty and feed him to the Nictuku. That shows it we're serious. the n we help it round up therest of the Nosferatu. When it's sated -taking care of the Nosferatu overpopulation -the Nictuku will leave. The prince will have to acknowledge my talents the n.'

That sounds like a nice plan, Hortense. But how can we be sure the Umbral monster is a Nictuku?'

Hortense reached into her purse and grabbed her cell phone. 'I'll call Stumpy and tell him to ask Iron Teeth Mc Ginty when he meets him tonight. Maybe the Sewer Rat will have learned so me thing new By the n. And after he finds out what we need to know, Stumpy'll bring Mc Ginty in.'

## The Lines Cross

Hortense and Ludovici left Elysium and walked through do wntown Dallas. with a few hours to kill while Stumpy acquired Mc Ginty, they decided to get fucked up on some changeling blood do wn at the May Molloch. 'You know,' Ludovici said, 'among his kind, Stumpy is called a 'metis.'' 'Yeah, I know. I knew it when I first saw him.'

'No, I said metis -you can't possibly know what a metis is. I learned of it through the Malkavian Madness Network over the last month.'

'I learned many strange things during the time I spent fighting the Wyrm a long side the Garou, Ludo.'

Ludovici couldn't argue with that. He changed the subject. 'So what's this place we're going to?''

'The May Molloch. The changelings meet there once a week for some kind of court. Strangely, it occurs on the same day as our Elysium. I know you dig auras, and you'll see some tripped-out auras on fae blood.'

Ludovici hugged his coat around him and walked faster. He walked with Hortense between him and the street. 0.. Stumpy wrapped his jaws around his chair's joystick and steered do wn the path that led to the frog pond. He took it slow, making patient turns and coasting do wn hills. The motor did n't make much noise at such slow speeds. Although the metis could see in pitchdarkness, he knew the path by heart. He'dcome here with Hortense a hundred times. And aside from Hortense, he'd dealt with Mc Ginty more than any other Lick in town. He found Mc Ginty waiting for him. Always the same place, always on time. 'We know about the thing from the Umbra that's eating Nosferatu,'

Stumpy said. 'We just want to know this: Is it Nictuku?'

'Both your master and her insane friend owe me boons forthis, you know.' 'Agreed. they'll owe you. Is it Nictuku?'

''Our Nosferatu sources think so. You know I'll expect Aieeeeee!'

Iron Teeth Mc Ginty's head burst into flame. He screamed as his flailing hands slapped at his face. Stumpy felt the elements lingering in the air, waiting for him to realize the m. He reached out to Gaia. Mc Ginty's eyeballs exploded from his head. The vampire collapsed to the ground. with a whip of his back, Stumpy fell from his wheelchair and inched himself over to the collapsed vampire. Stumpy thought about his missing feet, and his missing hands. The thoughts fueled his rage, and he changed form instantaneously. He snarled and went for the vampire's throat. so me where in the back of his mind, Stumpy heard his ancestors beating war drums. The metis felt the flames on his lips. He leaped up with a yelp and swayed back and forth trying to find a balance on his feetless legs. Stumpy fell to the ground. He called upon Gaia again for water to extinguish the flames. Mc Ginty's teeth faded from hot or ange to dull gray as the evaporating water hissed away into vapor. ''I want to tell you a story, while you're in a condition to appreciate it: there used to be this pack of Garou. Two of them loved each other very much. From their for bidden passions came a child. But the kid was fucked up, see. Twisted and deformed; I mean his soul as well as his body. The kid had some weird appetites -so me thing I'm sure you can under stand with those crazy teeth of yours. But the pack must have figured that Gaia needs all the help She can get, because they tolerated that hungry little shit for years. Until he was old enough to join his pack in the fight against the Damned, that is -he had a bad habit of eating his vanquished foes. 'The packdidn't like the who le vampire-eating thing. His pack took him into the city the n cut of f his hands and feet. But they couldn't just leave him for dead. they entrusted him to a bad luck princess they'd fought a long side for years, but told her to never return to Garou lands. She's helped the kid get back on his feet.'

Mc Ginty lifted his eyeless face from the dirt. He tried to laugh. 'Must... be... figurative...'

'Real funny, Sewer Rat! But I did n't tell you end of my story. Remember how I said the kid used to eat vampires? His favorite was Nosferatu.'

Stumpy snapped his jaws over Mc Ginty's ear. He ripped the cooked meat of f Mc Ginty's face. The metis rolled on his back, chewing the Nosferatu's flesh. Mc Ginty screamed. Blood streamed from his eye sockets, and horror was hed over him. Stumpy swallowed the last bits of Mc Ginty's nose. 'don't fuck with me, Leech. 1 ' 1 1 light you up every time. Now get up of f your ass and help me back into my chair.'

## Distractions

'Ludo? I'm trippin' balls.'
- 'Me too.'
- 'What are you thinking about?'
- 'About drinking another faerie.'
- 'This one's scared. I can see his aura. Hortense and Ludovici gazed up at the stars, nestled in the trash bags piled behind the May Molloch. The changeling boy squirmed between the m. If it seemed like he was about to worm away, they grabbed his wrists and bared their fangs. 'they killed J. F. K. here, Hortense.'

'I remember. I was there in brighter days.'

Hortense and Ludovici had gone on so me thing of a binge, draining about a third of the faerie court in the last 30 minutes. The blood did strange things to their dead brains. e

'I can see your aura, Ludo. You're fucked up, dude.'

Hortense heard their van pulling up. It arrived with that familiar hiss of its loose power-steering belt. She heard the back door slide open and the hydraulic lift lowering Stumpy's chair to the ground. The sound of his wheels came closer to the m. Ludovici looked up at the sound and threw A few trash bags over their changeling captive, his paranoia overwhelming the half-hearted Arcadian protest. Stumpy rolled up on the pile of trash. 'You did n't tell me you'd be out back,' he said. 'Did you get... that big-teeth guy I sent you to get?'

'Yeah, Hortense. He's waiting in the van. He ain't got no face.'

'Did he say the Umbral monster was a Nictuku like I thought?'
- 'Definitely.'

The world reoriented itself as Hortense sat up. She picked moldy cheese from her hair and looked over at her metis companion. 'NOW all we need to do is find theiron Teeth Mc Ginty and take Nictuku to it.'

The changeling boy struggled again. Ludovici socked him in the face with a brutal chop to calm him do wn. 'I think I know where the beast lurks,' he whispered. 'NOW that I am completely out of my head, the language of the auras is apparent to me. I think I've already seen the creature tonight, but we must make sure.' Ludo pulled himself out of the pile and brushed himself of f. 'But I'm not sure that Elysium is the safest place forthis betrayal. This Nictuku is no do ubt very dangerous.'

But Hortense was already walking to the van. 'NO more dangerous than the three BSDs I killed when I was in Montreal last year. Let's go.'

Ludovici realized that, for tonight at least, Hortense was his clanmate. He volunteered to drive. ## Population Control

Elysium had peaked By the time Hortense and Ludovici showed up. The current scene was strictly post-mortem. The proclamation of the prince that there would be no more Embraces in Dallas for the next 50 years had n't gone over well with the assembled Licks. Most of them had left in a huff, and the few who remained stood around seeing who could prophecy the most utter do om. The to read or primogen, though, was still there, deep into the discussion he had begun earlier that evening. His audience stood and snored. Stumpy, and the disoriented fae boy in his lap, rolled past the keeper of Elysium, who figured it was too late in the evening to start kickingout Lupines and changelings. Instead, he invited them to join him at the bar. Ludovici placed his hand on Hortense's should er to steady himself as he prepared to surrender to his perceptions. with an explosion of color, the emotions and secret thoughts that lingered in the room revealed the mselves to the Malkavian. He looked at the young stranger who sat at the right hand of the prince whispering things unheard by Kindred ears. 'It is just as I suspected,' Ludovici gasped. 'Gehenna wears a purple dress tonight.'

'I know. I see it too.'

with the fae blood in their systems, Hortense and Ludovici saw the thing for what it really was. It was not some new childe, some anonymous traveler, but an old and hungry evil, a curse inflicted by an Antediluvian on his childer. Her aura was a constantly exploding purple, a purple deeper than even Hortense could transmit, a purple that summed all the murderessness of the vampiric condition. Hortense and Ludovici felt the Curse of Caine heavy upon the m. Hortense looked at Ludo. The disgruntled frown was gone. 'It's time, Ludo.' Was she nervous, perhaps? 'Everything depends on this moment.'

The pair approached the Nictuku. The woman in purple exuded the most charming presence even when perceived in the normal spectrum. She curtsied to each of them and made small talk about Dallas and how she was looking for ward to making her have n here. As she talked, Ludovici watched Hortense growing increasingly skittish. finally, the tension exploded. 'Look, you can cut the bullshit! We know you're a Nictuku. We figured it all out.'

'But we don't fear you!' Ludovici added, just in time to keep the prince from calling a Blood Hunt on the monster in his Elysium. 'In fact, we've brought you one of your clan's errant childer. We'll deliver therest of them as soon as w e can.'

The woman did n't seem to appreciate their generous of fer. 'I don't know what you're talking about, I'm not a -what did you say again? -Nictuku?' At the sound of the word, A few vampires turned to listen to the conversation. Even the to read or primogen ceased in his ramblings. Roachman slipped quietly into the shadows with a look of terror and fear. Hortense leaned in and whispered to the ancient beast. 'If I were a Nictuku, I believe I'd do almost anything to take a bite out of Iron Teeth Mc Ginty.' The thing's eyes narrowed as a smile crossed her face. 'Yes,' it said. 'Did you know he actually has iron teeth? A descendant of Baba Yaga perhaps. He must be delicious.'

Ludovici backed away from the Nictuku. 'Time to leave, Hortense. Are you still looking at her aura?'

'No way. We're so close, Ludo. don't crap out of me now!'

The woman in purple ripped of f Hortense's arm and stuffed it into her growing mouth. The halls of Elysium echoed with screams. Hortense stood there, disbelief in her eyes. 'This isn't supposed to be the way it happens! I thought you ate Nosferatu!'

'I do. And Brujah, and Malkavians, and on do wn the line. Each has its own flavor.' The Nictuku licked her lips, which were already swelling into turgid scars as the svelte young vampire melted away to reveal the creature's immense true form. 'The only thing I like more than vitae is fae blood. And Garou blood.' there was a quiet whimper from Stumpy's direction, and a yellow pool collected under his chair. He put aside his species' ancient hatred of all vampires -he and the Leeches had a common enemy now! ## The Inevitable show down

The Nictuku ripped through Elysium, tearing apart the Kindred in her wake. A legless neonate tried to drag himself to safety until the Nictuku planted its massive foot in his back. The to read or Primogen had lost his eyes and was clutching at his skull. not hing beautiful transfixed him now. Only horror. A broken wooden fingernail in the heart of the prince held him immobile. For some reason, the Nictukudidnot destroy him out right asshe had so many others. Hortense and Ludovici huddled behind an overturned banquet table. Hortense grasped her bleeding should er while Ludo stared at the aura light show. 'The who le room is purple now, Hortense.'

'Who fucking cares! We're gonna die!'

'We're not going to die. I have an idea, but I am much too preoccupied right now to vocalize it.' He felt Hortense screaming so me thing about how he should snap out of it. 'I'm trying to be patient. We must wait for the prerequisite conditions to realize the mselves.' The Nictuku fell upon the changeling and gulped him do wn. The creature's purple aura wavered the n threatened to black out the room while the changeling's aura floated away into the ether. 'Now!' Ludo leaped over the table and made his way through the do or while the beast or iented itself to its new outlook on reality. At kast Stumpy won't abandon me, Hortense thought as the Nictuku picked up Stumpy's chair and hurled the shrieking metis across the room. The chair bent when it landed, trapping Stumpy underneath. Hortense huddled behind the table, unable to for mulate a coherent escape with the fae blood swishing around in her head. She briefly considered making peace with her maker but quickly decided it was important to remain standoffish at the end. Her hot-blooded Brujah heritage would permit not hing less. She presumed that no miracles would be forthcoming on her behalf. All hope seemed lost, but suddenly, Iron Teeth Mc Ginty burst into the room. His bums had disappeared and most of his face had grown back. He now had a healthy complexion for a man with mottled green skin. Ludovici stumbled in after him, grasping at the do or frame trying desperately to remain upright. He crawled across the room to rejoin Hortense as the Nictuku wheeled around and faced her new opponent. 'Mc Ginty!' the Nictuku screamed. 'Absimiliard's Concubine!' Mc Ginty shouted back. 'The Mistress with Wooden Claws! I haven't seen you this side of the Gauntlet since you killed my sire. His old occult books told me how to finally defeat you!'

Mc Ginty lunged at the Nictuku and buried his iron fangs deep into her skull. Where theiron contacted the changeling blood in the beast's system, a strange spectral feedback began. The Nictuku's aura became a negative of itself and started shrinking. The aura around Mc Ginty seemed to vibrate, speeding up to some grand explosion. the n the beast bit his head of f and spit out 12 iron spikes. they left colorful trails in the air as they fell. Ludovici leaned over and whispered to Hortense. 'That was fucking cool.'

The Nictuku staggered about the room, holding the spot Mc Ginty had bitten into. She how led in pain the n ripped the Tremere primogen in two. No one in the room seemed to mind. 'Nice tactic, theiron and changeling blood,' Hortense said. 'But it looks like she's still going strong.'

'One again, Hortense, you underestimate your enemies. Her aura is diminishing, and thus her power. Now in comes the cavalry.'

As if on cue, theremaining strength of the Dallas Nosferatu coalesced out of the shadows. Each held a broadsword reinforced to with stand the rigors of their advanced levels of Potence, and they all wore chain-mail vests beneath their clothing. The King of the Sewer led the creeping deployment, admonishing the Nictuku in a language Hortense did n't under stand. the n, only for a moment, a silence held the floor. The Nictuku roared, and the Nosferatu waded in to destroy her. ## Transferable Characters

Hortense saw herself in therear-view mirror, applying her makeup with her remaining hand while Stumpy desperately gripped the steering wheel of the van with his for earms. 'The who le Nictuku thing ruined my buzz,' she said to Ludovici, who sat in the back seat holding his head. they heard a scream from so me where inside the community center. 'Hurry it up, Stumpy. The police are going to be here soon to investigate this disturbance.'

'I'm far too mad for the police to catch,' Ludovici said. 'But I'm worried about who ever wins that brawl in there. I'd like to be so me place else. Like Minnesota, maybe.'

Stumpy whined and floored the pedal. The van merged onto 1-35 North as the vampires crawled under their seats to sleep the day away. Stumpy rolled do wn the window and licked his lips. He wondered what the Nosferatu tasted like in Minnesota. e

## THE FOMORI by Carl Bowen

## what are THE EOMORI. Fomori are the product of the fusion of a human and a spirit in service to the Wyrm. For a myriad of reasons and through a wide variety of means, an otherwise normal man or woman devotes him- or herself to the ideals of corruption and destruction that motivate all other servants of the Wyrm. It is a common misconception that Pentex, a corrupt or ganization who lly in thrall to the Wyrm, creates and directs all fomori. Not to understate matters, Pentex do es indeed go to great lengths to recruit new fomori and keep the m busy do ing the company's dirty work. Pentex scientists also keep the mselves busy finding new ways to facilitate the creation of fomori among the populace at large. how ever, the company did not create the process by which Bane spirits bond with human souls. All human beings have qualities attractive to the Wyrm's evil Banes, be they weak spots in our moral fiber or antisocial tendencies we only barely manage to keep in check. Once a Bane detects the avenue through which it may exploit this potential in a prospective human host, it needs no coaching to travel that road on its own. ## TYPES O E BANES the se listed spirits are not the only ones that serve the Wyrm, but they are the spirits best able to possess humans. Most fomori are the product of joining one of the following Banes with a human subject. The possession is not instantaneous, how ever, so a Garou warrior with a mind to prevent the conjunction could travel into the Umbra to do battle with the spirit before the fomor is born. Keep in mind, though, that most fomori are not necessarily the product of joining the se Banes with will ing human subjects. A Bane with a powerful enough command of the Possession Charm can latch on to the soul of a victim regardless of the victim's resistance. The fight for do minance may take some Banes longer than others, but enough struggle will overcome any obstacle in time. ## BLOOD BANES

Blood Banes are the farmers of the crop of filthy, festering cesspits that the modem age is heir to. the se Banes frequent toxic dumps, blights and other equally repulsive sites in hopes of acquiring disease. they the n seek out victims to infect with the diseases they pick up. When a Blood Bane has transferred a disease successfullymuch as a bee would pollin ate a flower -it feeds on both the disease and the concomitant suffering to which the disease gives birth. Rage 6, Gnosis 5, will power 6, Power 20

Charms: Airt Sense, Possession

## BREEDER BANES the se Banes are responsible for the existence of the Ferectoi breed of fomor. The Banes appear from the Umbra to extract the semen or fertilized egg of a sleeping human victim. they the n retreat back across the Gauntlet. Most Breeder Banes use the Charm: Breeding Trance to erase all memory of the rape from the ir victims' minds. The Charm replaces the memory with one of a disturbingly violent erotic dream, provided it works. The most for tunate victims of the se Banes suffer minor brain damage and lose all memory of the events that tookplace that night. The least for tunate victims remember both the dream and the nocturnal visitation itself. Rage 5, Gnosis 6, will power 5, Power 25

Charms: Airt Sense, Breeding Trance, Materialize

## how LINC~ INSANITIES

Lacking almost entirely in form, the se Banes are difficult foes to over come. Worse yet, they do not attack the body or corrupt the land. Instead, how ling Insanities lie in wait for prey, the n shriek and how l mindlessly. The sounds buffet the minds of those who hear the m, stripping the victims of their sanity. The Banes the n feed on the madness they create. the se Banes were among those who brought about the do wnfall of the White how ler tribe. Rage 7, Gnosis 6, will power 7, Power 20

Charms: Airt Sense, Corruption, Possession

## MIND FEEDERS

Mind Feeders have existed as long as the human mind has existed, leading some to wonder if humanity somehow created them long ago. Further speculation suggests that the se Banes' manipulation gave rise to the first human psychics. Putting speculation aside, how ever, some facts about the se three-eyed monstrosities can not be ignored. For some reason, the Pentex Corporation has been enjoying greater cooperation with Mind Feeder Banes as part of a project to create anew, psychic breed of fomor. Tests have shown that the se Banes bond best and become most powerful When they bond with human psychics. Otherwise, they bond with the most intelligent non-psychics they can find. Rage 4, Gnosis 5, will power 8, Power 20

Charms: Airt Sense, Corruption, Possession

## SCAVENC~BR PACK

A single Bane creates a Scavenger Pack by possessing a host of small animals the n seeking out a larger animal inside which to make a true home. The most common example of this phenomenon is that of a Bane possessing a horde of rats. The rats the n seek out a dead or dying human body and for ce their way inside, hollowing out as much space for the mselves as they can. theresultant bulging, shambling mass becomes a fomor known as a Hollow Man. While possessing the host of smaller animals, the Bane's consciousness extends to all of the individual members while remaining anchored in only one. If that particular anchor animal is destroyed, the Bane is for ced back into the Umbra where it must start its search anew. Rage 4, Gnosis 6, will power 4, Power 20

Charms: Airt Sense, Healing, Materialize, Possession, Prolonged Dying

## TYPES O E EOMORI

## BRAIN EATERS

Despite the schlocky sound of their name, the Brain Eaters are some of the most subtle, insidious Fomori ever created. As part of a far-reaching initiative to corrupt those for tunate few humans born with psychic powers, a division of the Pentex corporation binds a Bane known as a Mind Feeder to the brain of a latent human psychic. The torture and anguish the psychic suffers as a result of the operation awakens his power, but at a terrible cost. While it makes the psychic more powerful than he would have become on his own, the Mind Feeder Bane creates in the new fomor the urge to consume living human brains. Should the psychic deny himself this urge for longer than a week, his powers atrophy, and his very body begins to with er and decay. The addiction is so strong, how ever, that most Brain Eaters indulge more than once a week after they have indulged the first time. In return for dining on this gruesome delicacy, the fomor develops the power to make people hallucin ate, he no longer needs fear the Delirium, and he can read people's minds with ease. Worse yet, the fomor retains any psychic powers he may have had before being bound to his Bane. To top of f all else, the binding operation causes no not iceable physical change in the fomor, all owing him to blend in with therest of human society with out so much as a ripple. ## ENTICERS

Enticers exist to bring out and exploit the worst, most base instinctual behavior in human beings. they live and breathe such raw, powerful sexual magnetism that only the most saintly and reserved victims can control the mselves. (And even their resistance ultimately folds.) Regardless of sex or sexual or ientation, once an Enticer spots a victim, the victim is do omed to the fomor's depredations. Pentex uses Enticers as Judas goats or Jezebels, depending on the circumstances. Many a valiant and driven were wolf has followed a stunning Enticer into a trap, never realizing his mistake until it was too late. Many a pack of young hotheads has been torn apart as its members fought tooth and claw for the 'affections' of the same fomor. More of ten than not, an Enticer needs only whisper A few encouraging words in the right ears to accomplish its dire aims. Should physical confrontation be necessary, how ever, the Enticer's only form of defense is a row of wickedly barbed fangs. Should a character ever manage to see through an Enticer's seductive illusion, he might be surprised to see an entirely normal-looking person underneath. Enticer fomori are created by repeated exposure to a highly addictive chemical in a special brand of cosmetics distributed by a subsidiary of Pentex. The chemical creates an intense high in the wearer, while transforming the sweat glands in the wearer's skin into high-output pheromone factories. the se pheromones attract members of either sex equally (regardless of the sex of the person wearing the makeup) by dredging up the image of sexual perfection in the victim's mind and lowering the victim's inhibitions accordingly. Pentex keeps Enticer fomori compliant very simply by threatening to cut of f the Enticer's supply of its addictive makeup if the Enticer do es not do as it is told. D

## E ERECTOI

Born from the disgusting womb of a Breeder Bane, the Ferectoi consider the mselves the larvae of the Wyrm on Earth. they look human and act human and have human motivations. To the casual observer, each appears entirely human (if a particularly vital and ruthless human). Even the Ferectoi's for mi+ dable powers remain concealed When they're not in use. how ever, the se fomori's resemblance to humanity stops at the surface. Deep do wn, the Ferectoi are Wyrmcreatures through and through. While some might struggle with their true nature, that nature always wins out eventually. In the mean time, the Ferectoi enjoy all the pleasures of power and luxury life on Earth of fers. Banes and lesser Wyrm beings serve the m, as do the unwitting humans the Ferectoi do min ates in his human semblance. ## EOMORI EAMILIBS

Sometimes, groups of Banes choose the path of least resistance in bonding with human hosts. the se Banes congregate around blights or Hellholes in remote backwoods are as and infest the sequestered, inbred families that sometimes also congregate in such is olated are as. Once they have become fomori the mselves, the older members of the se families do most of the work for the se Banes there after. When their of fspring grow old enough, the parents take them to the site where the Banes wait and perform a twisted bastardization of the Rite of Passage. This rite makes the young adult part of the family 'right and proper,' ending the hellish existence the child has likely endured thus far. The child the n receives his first taste of the special Charm (and Taint) that runs in the family, otherwise known as the 'family gift.'

## ERBAKEEBT the se beasts are almost comically monstrous. they scuttle along on long, muscular arms and stunted legs. the ir fingers and prehensile toes stretch out of proportion to the ir limbs. the ir luminescent, unblinking eyes bulge grotesquely from the sockets. Liver spots stipple the ir slimy skin, and they communicate in porcine snorts and clicks. Morbidly obese 'queen' Freakfeet lounge about laying eggs and being served by the more able males of the species. Oddly enough, not even the Pentex Corporation appreciates the existence of the se disgusting beasts. or iginally created by joining a Sludge Elemental (known as a H'ruggling Bane) with a human-amphibian genetic hybrid, the first generation of Freakfeet escaped from Pentex's service after an explosion at the lab that created the m. When given the opportunity, Pentex field operatives 'sanitize' Freakfeet hives where they find the m. Unfortunately, how ever, Freakfeet were designed to be prolific in any climactic conditions. The creatures maintain subterranean hives all over the world, regardless of Pentex's every effort to cull the expanding population. Despite the human DNA that led to the ir creation, Freakfeet you ng do not gestate with in a Freakfeet queen. Rather, the queen injects her fertilized eggs into the body of a living human being with a sharp stinger/ ovipositor at the base of her spine. Freakfeet males gather human hosts by venturing up through sewer pipes in urban are as and abducting the m. they use the Rat Head power to make the journey up out of the sewer -of ten emerging through toilet bowls in the ir victims' homes -and they use the Maleate power on the victims in or der to reverse the journey with the ir prize. More of ten than not, a human will die as a result of the Freakfeet birthing process. Those hardy few who survive remain in the hive as 'breeders' until they either expire or are traded to another hive. ## or EH HOUNDS

While it can be argued that some fomori resist the changes that over take them and make them less than human, no such case can be made for the Gorehounds. Gorehounds revel in what they become, living up to what ever ghastly potential they possess. The transformation into a Gorehound usually marks the human's achievement of a life long goal. Deranged loners brimming with repressed rage and sadistic fantasies make the best prospective Gorehounds. To capitalize on this fresh pool of potential fomori, the Pentex Corporation distributes Bane-possessed slasher videotapes through a shell company called Slaughterhouse Video. Merely watching the tapes opens the viewer to possession By the Bane. Once in place, the Bane helps reduce the viewer's inhibitions, opening the floodgates on the barely contained sadism. Inspired By the 'heroes' of the slasher tapes he watcher, the young Gorehound sets out to stake his own claim on trademarked over-the-top violence. The serial torture and murder of which Gorehounds are capable and all too happy to indulge in knows no bounds. A new Gorehound might begin his career on a small scale (say by mutilating household animals in his neighborhood), but his ambition to indulge in more sensational violence grows as his confidence grows. Should a Gorehound ever be caught or confronted, he will fight to escape for as long as he can move, causing as much crippling pain and destruction as he can. While unreliable as operatives or employees of Pentex, Gorehounds do the work of the Wyrm with admirable zeal, and they provide an excellent distraction or scapegoat for actors undertaking more important Pentex initiatives. ## HOLLOW MEN

Although no one is entirely certain of where the Hollow Men came from, most speakers who have a reputable opinion on the subject agree that no other breed of fomor has existed longer on Earth. the se horrifying monsters have do ne much to bring about the destruction and ultimate corruption of Gaia. From the outside (and adistance), Hollow Men appear human, if somewhat distracted and fidgety. Closer examin ation, how ever, reveals more hints to the true nature of just what a Hollow Man is. A Hollow Man's skin bulges and ripples when he moves. His joints bend stiffly or with a too-fluid grace. His chest fails to rise and fall with the rhythm of respiration. Occasionally, a particularly alert viewer might even see a dark shape scuttling across the Hollow Man's skin, climbing out of one or ifice to disappear into another. The Hollow Men appear thus because the bodies they wear on the outside are little more than convenient homes for a horde of smaller animals possessed by a Scavenger Pack Bane. The spirit of the human shell remains intact enough to bond with the Bane, granting the pitiful human a grotesque type of immortality in return for taking the

Scavenger Pack into his body and carrying out the urges of the Wyrm. The types of animals most likely to make up a Scavenger Pack include rats, snakes, bees, roaches and the larger species of spiders. I

## SHADOWFIENDS the Shadowfiendsoperateindirectcontrasttothe Gorehounds.Gorehounds are created from randommalcontentsbychance inhopes of spreadingdestruction, suffering and terror;Shadowfiends are selected carefullyfrom apool of will ing applicantsfor the express purpose of disposing of sociallyvisible or political enemies of the Pentex Corporation.Gorehounds slaughter indiscrimi natelywithwhatever implement of destruction comes conveniently to hand; Shadowfiendsmovein shadow and kill with eerilybeautiful precision. Pentexkeeps its Shadowfiends tightlyunderwrapsuntil a delicate assignment arises.when the standard tactics of dealingwith aminor enemy of the corporation fail, a Shadowfiend is activated to dispose of the troublemaker. When someone learns toomuch about the company's ulterior motives, the companydispatchesa Shadowfiend topreventthat someonefromdisseminatingwhathehas learned. a lithe, sinewy frame with skin somewhat darker than the ir racial average. Yet, what sets the m apart from normal people most distinctly is the jet-black sheen of the ir eyes. Very few individuals outside the Pentex corporate structure have seen the eyes of a Shadowfiend and lived to describe the m, how ever. Although unremarkable in most respects, Shadowfiends do bear certain physical similaritiesthatsetthem apart from otherfomorbreeds.the yall share

## CRBATINC~ EOMORI CHARACTERS

Creating a fomor character proceeds initially just as do es the creation of a human in Laws of the Hunt. Assign the character a Nature and Demeanor, as well as a motivation. Give the character six, four and three Attribute Traits in the primary, secondary and tertiary Attribute categories as you see fit. Assign what ever negative Traits go along with the concept as well. finally, add in the character's will power, Backgrounds, Merits and Flaws. don't bother tracking the Humanity Trait, how ever. The slow descent from full humanity to utter corruption By the Wyrm is better represented through roleplaying than random marks on a character sheet. After creating a human character, pick from the preceding selection a breed of fomor that such a character would most likely become. Reflect the change and the reason why your character is most suited to that breed in your write-up of the character's history. (Unless, of course, you're playing a Freakfeet fomor, in which case your character history pretty much writes itself.)

When you've come this far, assign the character Powers and Taints. You are not limited in the selection of your character's Powers, but keep in mind that some Powers are more appropriate to some breeds than others. Remember also that Powers do not come at all cheap. You can not spend Freebie Traits on Powers, you can not spend the Traits derived from Flaws on Powers, and you can not spend the Traits derived from Negative Traits on Powers. The only Traits you can spend on Powers are those youreceive from taking Taints. Luckily, though, you can spend the points youreceive from Taints on Traits other than Powers. For instance, you can assign your character seven Traits worth of Taints the n take seven Traits worth of Powers. If you don't want seven Traits worth of

Powers, you could take four Traits worth of Powers and spend theremaining Traits just as you would spend Traits derived from Flaws or Negative Traits. ## U S I N ~ T H E EOMORI I N A CHRONICLE

Potential players of fomor characters, be prepared to hear this response to your initial request: 'You want to play a what!?' Fomori are not pretty, they're not heroic, and they certainly aren't going to come out victorious in the end. Even when the fomori are the good guys in a chronicle, they're still bad guys. they exist by only either the grace of the Wyrm or than ks to the genius of Pentex scientists. Should the fomor ever step out of line and try to do the right thing, one or the other will assuredly make him pay. Fomori, as characters, have little to no redeeming value what soever. How the n can you possibly hope to use such a character in an ongoing chronicle? On one hand, the easy answer to this question is to use fomori as Pentex and the Wyrm intend: as the bad guys. Fomori make excellent villains, shock troops and Wyrm-beast mooks. No better evidence of the Corrupter's presence on Earth than the existence of the se monsters. Roleplaying a fomor of fers a player the chance to explore the deepest, most vile depths to which his imagin ation can sink the n put that nastiness aside when the character meets his inevitable end. Letting your character give in who lly to his evil nature (for the sake of plot) is one of the most cathartic experiences roleplaying has to of fer. At the same time, the character's story demonstrates the price of power and the importance of keeping your darker urges tightly in check. By the same token, it's just fun to play the bad guy sometimes. If you're enjoying yourself by playing a right bastard, the other players should have just as much fun trying to put a stop to your nefarious schemes. not hing is more fun than overcoming an unrepentantly evil opponent, especially if that opponent is one's equal in all but motivation. Playing the villain everyone loves to hate is an awful lot of fun, even when the good guys finally manage to pull to get her and conquer you once and for all. On the other hand, one can tell a compelling story in which the fomori characters are the protagonists. This type of story, how ever, is not nearly as much funas the preceding one. Fomor-centered stories are some of the most horrifying and tragic tales one can find in the World of Darkness. Consider the life-cycle of the standard fomor: A bleak, depressing or violent life leaves gaps in the soul of the potential victim. A spirit of corruption finds (or is directed to) those gaps, and it begins to attach itself to the m. The hapless individual feels this intrusion, but he is powerless to prevent it. After all, some part of him wants the spirit to fill the void with in him. When the fusion is complete, the victim's body warps and mutates to match the changes that go on in his mind. After the transformation (or before, in many cases), a corporation driven by a for ce more sinister than greed tries in every way to exploit the new monster in any way it can. finally, of ten before the poor, pitiful wretch can come to grips with the horrifying changes that have been so rudely thrust upon him, he runs afoulof vicious zealots who want to tear him apart with tooth and claw for no better reason than the fact that he even exists. new state, all while trying to hold tightly to what made them human in the first - -of halves as a multiplication of who les. Fomor protagonists must searchforacure for(or are conciliation with) their place. how ever, onemustremember that the Banewithwhichthehuman has merged is not just a voicein the character'shead. the Bane is just as muchwho

## POWERSAND TAINTS

The following list is Not all-inclusive, but it do es cover the basic range available to the fomor breeds listed. Storvtellers and Dlavers are encouraged to make upnew and even more disgusting Powersand Taintsfor their games' charactersin add it i on to the onespresented here. ## POWERS

## Berserker (variable)

The fomor begins play with Rage Traits equal to the cost of the Power at character creation. He may use the se Traits just Garou use their Rage, but the player may not buy more Rage Traits after character creation. The fomor regains spent Rage the first time he is wounded in a game session, at the beginning of any new conflict or when he's particularly humiliated. ## Brain Eating (6 Traits)

A character using this Power robs his victim of Mental Traits and adds those Traits to his own Mental Traits. The fomor's player steals one Mental Trait from the victim per will power Test he wins. The transfer affects the characters' effective maximum number of Mental Traits fortherest of the game session. Should either player spend a will power Trait to refresh his character's Mental Traits during that game session, the expenditure refreshes the newly adjusted number of Traits. The stolen Traits return at the beginning of the next game session. This attack do es not constitute a physical assault, but the victim will know who is using the power. Should the fomor actually eat the victim's physical brain after the victim has died, he adds the victim's Mental Traits and will power Traits to his own fortheremainder of the session. ## Chameleon Coloration (four Traits)

When the player spends Mental Traits, the character's skin changes color to blend in with his surroundings. The nature of the change causes the Mental Trait expense tovary, but the illusionisflawless. nlyplayers of characters with supernaturalperceptionsmaymakea Mental Testtonoticethefomor using this Power. ## Claws, Fangs or Horns (three, five or seven Traits)

An unnatural adaptation (be it cybernetic, or ganic or a mixture of the two) makes the fomor's attacks all the more vicious. Although the se adaptations can be disguised or retracted, they can not be removed with out causing serious physical pain. In combat, claws, fangs and horns add an extra level of lethal damage to the fomor's attacks. The base Trait cost purchases one adaptation; the secondary cost provides two. The full seven-Trait cost adds all three bodily weaponsto thesamemonster. ## Colony Powers (variable)

Particular to the Hollow Men, Colony Powers bestow an ability to the fomor that is usually attributed to the animal that makes up its Scavenger Pack. A Hollow Man full of spiders might be able to scale sheer walls or infect his victims with a deadly venom. Being inhabited by a Scavenger Pack of rats might grant the fomor the Rat Head Power. The Storyteller should assess the advantage the Colony Powers grant the character and price them accordingly. ## Corrupted Visions (four Traits)

When the player spends a Mental Trait and wins a Mental Test against his opponent, the fomor causes his victim to suffer from compelling hallucin ations. Fomori use this Power to prod victims into action or to drive them over the edge into insanity. The victim's player may banish the se hallucin ations by spending a will power Trait. ## Darksight (two Traits)

The fomor can see in perfect darkness, and the player suffers no Trait penalties for impaired visibility. This power represents chiropteran sonar, feline low-light vision or a heightened sensitivity to disturbances in the air, as is appropriate to the character. Should the character's compensatory sense be overloaded suddenly by sensation, how ever, he is completely stunned for one turn, and he suffers the Negative Trait Oblivious x 2 for the entirety of the scene after which the character recovers from the onslaught. He also loses the Darksight advantage fortherest of the scene. ## Dispersion (four Traits)

As another Power specific to the Hollow Men, Dispersion is a fantastic defense mechanism. By spending a Trait of will power, the fomor's player can for ce the entire Scavenger Pack to evacuate its hollow human shell at once. The empty human body collapses and remains inert, but the fomor's entire consciousness extends to each member of the Scavenger Pack. Should the animal central to the Pack be killed, the fomor dies. When a Hollow Man is beaten to the Incapacitated health level, this Power activates automatically. ## Enhancement (three Traits)

By winning a Social Challenge against the player of her intended victim, the player of a fomor can cause herself to appear to be her victim's ideal physical mate, regardless of the fomor's actual appearance. Should the fomor's player lose the test, the fomor still seems attractive, if only slightly above average. ## Foot Pads (one Trait)

## Spongy pads on the bottom of the fomor's feet muffle the sound of his footsteps to such a degree that only supernatural perception can detect the sound. Garou Gifts (variable)

The fomor's player may purchase and use Garou Gifts for one Trait times the Gift's level plus one. ## Immunity to the Delirium (one Trait)

Having become monsters the mselves, the sight of a were wolf in its Crinos form do es not trigger the instinctual fear response to which normal humans are heir. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

## Malleate (six Traits)

By piercing the hide of her opponent, a fomor injects a powerful venom under the skin that changes the victim's body into a putty-like mass. The fomor may the n warp and shape that mass as she sees fit. Using this power requires the fomor's player to win a Physical Challenge to make the first contact and successive Physical Challenges to make the desired changes. The effects of this Power are permanent unless the victim uses the Gifts: Resist Toxin, do ppelganger or Adaptation. A Garou can also purge the venom from the body of a victim with a successful Rite of Cleansing. When the venom is gone, the victim's body returns to normal. Changes made to one's body by this Power cause health levels of aggravated damage. The severity of this damage is up to Storyteller discretion and the magnitude of the change. ## Mind Rape (six Traits)

If a fomor's player spends a will power Trait and wins a Mental Challenge, his character can invade the mind of a victim and pull out even well hidden secret thoughts. That is to say, after a successful challenge, the user of this Power can demand from the victim a complete and honest answer to one question. The player of the victim must give as thorough an answer as possible, even if his character has blocked the information out subconsciously. This Power can not detect uses of other supernatural mind-altering powers, nor can it retrieve information that another supernatural power has erased. Use of this Power is in no way subtle, as far as the victim is concerned. ## Prolonged Life (four Traits)

The Bane fused to the human's soul extends his life span far beyond that of any mere mortal. Any fomor with this Power, how ever, must take the Addiction Taint. The fomor will not die of old age as long as he engages regularly in his addiction. This Power, how ever, will not protect the fomor from the external rigors of its existence. ## Rat Head (four Traits)

By spending a Physical Trait, the player all ows his character to wriggle through a space roughly one-twentieth of his size. For example, a fomor of average human size could squeeze underneath a closed do or or escape danger through the drain in a sink. ## Regeneration (five Traits)

The fomor with this power recovers from non-aggravated damage at the same accelerated rate were wolves do. ## Scent of the Wyld or Weaver (five Traits)

The fomor's player spends a Mental Trait in order to mask his character's obvious Wymvtaint. Characters who use the Gift: Sense Wyrm on a fomor using this Power fail automatically, gaining a strong sense that the fomor is actually acreature of the Wyld or Weaver. how ever, neither Red Talons nor Glasswalkers are fooled by this Power. ## Slobber Snot (three Traits)

Oozing warts cover the fomor's skin, exuding a slick coat of foul-smelling slime. This slime grant's the fomor's player a free retest in all Physical Challenges in which he is trying to break free of an opponent's grasp. This slime also makes it particularly easy for a fomor to escape from ropes, handcuffs or tightly confined spaces, The slime's distinctive and powerful stench puts the fomor's player one Trait do wn in all challenges related to stealth. ## Spirit Ties (variable)

The fomor may draw upon a well of Gnosis, which he can use just as the Garou can. The player receives one Gnosis Trait per Trait he spends into the Power at character creation. He can not increase this Trait there after. The fomor regains spent Gnosis Traits by meditating (see Laws of the Wild), destroying fetishes or slaughtering Umbral spirits. ## TAINTS

The Taints listed here serve as guidelines for building fomor characters. Players should work out the specifics of each Taint with their Storytellers with an eye toward their games' particular balance and the dramatic needs of their stories. ## Addiction (variable)

The fomor must engage in some activity on a regular schedule, lest with drawal and distraction overwhelm him. The frequency with which the fomor must indulge his taste varies from once per month to once per hour. The substance or action to which he is addicted also varies. The player may even designate the use of one of his character's Powers -such as Brain Eating -as the activity to which the character is addicted. Should the character deny his addiction, he loses a health level, and the player is one Trait do wn in all challenges per period that the character has abstained. ## Brainwashed (three Traits)

As a result of intensive psychological treatment or skillful emotional manipulation, your character has adopted with fanatical zeal a belief that was not or igin ally her own. She will not question this belief, and she reacts violently to those who question its validity. In her opinion, the naysayersagainst her belief are obviously vicious malcontents bent on destroying all she holds dear, no matter how ridiculous the idea with which she has been brainwashed is. Not even blatant, incontrovertible evidence of malfeasance can shake the faith with which she's been indoctrin ated. The player of a brainwashed fomor is do wn two Traits in any confrontation against an acknowledged representative of her character's faith. ## The Crusties (three Traits)

Fomor with the Power: Slobber Snot are the most common victims of this Taint. Once a month, for a period of approximately a week, the coating of mucus and oil on the fomor's skin dries out and flakes of f in itchy, irritating patches. During the period of this affliction, a fomor is one Trait do wn on all challenges due to the constant distraction. On the plus side, the Slobber Snot Power still functions optimally during this period. how ever, instead of the low-viscosity slime protecting the fomor's skin, the flakes the mselves provide the benefit by tearing away more easily. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

## Derangement (three Traits)

Fomor are not the most stable individuals to begin with, but your character has gone further around the bend than most. The Bane that possesses your fomor has discovered a particularly prickly spot in your character's psyche, and it exploits that sensitive spot in any way it can. This mental malady is now the core of your character's every motivation. Check a psychology textbook for the symptoms of some common mental illnesses and role play them in everything your character do es. You may not spend will power Traits to over come the drives of your character's derangement. ## Physical was ting (six Traits)

One of your character's Powers takes a physical toll on your character's body. when ever the character uses that Power in a scene, he loses one Physical Trait for the scene. Each subsequent scene in which the character uses the Power in question robs the character of another Physical Trait unless he has rested sufficiently between uses. wasted Traits return at the rate of one Trait per hour after the scene in which they are used. ## Rotting (six Traits)

The fomor's body is falling apart. The character loses one health level per month as his body with ers and decays. The fomor's player may make a Static Test to hold of f the loss of the health level at the beginning of each month, but he must win the test. Players who test successfully to attack a character with this Taint may immediately make a second Static Test. If the attacking player wins the additional test, his character's attack inflicts an additional health level of normal damage. ## Walking Bomb (five Traits)

Agents of the Pentex Corporation have implanted an explosive charge in the base of your character's skull to secure his future cooperation. The bomb can be set to detonate under avariety of conditions (a remote switch, a heart monitor implanted in the Pentex agent himself, a proximity sensor or a simple countdown timer), but only a qualified Pentex explosives expert can deactivate it. Neither blunt trauma nor even a direct hit from a.357 slug will cause the bomb to go of f, but the fomor's employer can detonate the device at whim. The charge is shaped so that the explosion will blow the fomor's head clean of f with as little collateral damage as possible. Variants of this device flood the fomor's system with a deadly venom, deliver a debilitating electric shock, release a highly caustic acid or pump ultraconcentrated depressants into the fomor's bloodstream. ## WRAITH MFRITS AND ELAWS FOR oblivion by Jess Heinig

The dead have plenty to worry about. It's tough enough just hanging on after dying. Since every wraith is an individual, complete with carefully plotted goals and driving Passions, it only makes sense that their foibles, problems and advantages be similarly unique. Each wraith character has a personal set of Attributes, Abilities, Arcanoi, Passions and Fetters. Some, though, have their own spins on such things, or peculiarities that aren't common to other wraiths. Thus, we give you Merits and Flaws for Oblivion characters. Remember: A modifier to bidding affects the number of Traits required to enter a challenge. A one-Trait bid penalty means that you must bid an extra Trait on a challenge. A modifier to resolution affects total Traits for resolving ties and overbids. ## ELAWS

## CORPOREAL MERITSAND

## BOTCHED MOLIITION( 1-3 TRAIT TE LAW)

so me thing went horribly, horribly wrong during a Moliate attempt, and your character's Corpus has resisted attempts to change it back. This deformity gives him problems, and it's not going to go away soon. Perhaps some guilty, dark part of your character's psyche believes that he really deserves to reflect the deformity, or maybe he's just an unlucky punk who's stuck with an extra tentacle fortherest of his existence. For one Trait, your character has a relatively minor and annoying moliation 'scar.' Perhaps he has an ugly-looking hunch, a discoloration or some other not iceable incongruity. This incongruity makes him easily recognizable unless he takes steps to cover it, and it's in an inconvenient place where it'll take some work to conceal it. A funny color under one's arm do esn't count. A hand that's been moliated into a gnarled, inflexible lump is a much more reason able expression of this Flaw. For two Traits, the moliation problem is fairly nasty. Maybe your character has a with ered arm, or his skin is scaly in patches due to a failed attempt at creating armor. When the botched moliation isn't concealed, the character suffers an extra negative Social Trait of Repugnant, for which you gain no extra Traits. your character might be able to conceal this problem, but it takes some real effort. forthree Traits, some terrible mistake inconveniences your character horribly. Not only do you suffer a Negative Social Trait of Repugnant, but you also suffer a one-Trait penalty to all challenges where the specific moliation might hinder the character. For instance, i f your character's legs are fused to get her above the knees, he will have trouble running or balancing. If his head is sunk into the center of his torso, he'll have difficulty seeing peripherally or speaking to people. the se botches are generally too extreme to conceal. The victim of a botched moliation may be able to repair the damage eventually (with a good use of Moliate and the expenditure of experience Traits equal to twice the Flaw's value), but it's sure to be an annoyance for quite a while. You must wear a tag in a conspicuous location, which explains the nature of the deformity. If another wraith uses Moliate to correct this deformitv, his player must spend one extra Pathos Trait beyond the art's standard cost per turn he'wishds the moliaied change to last. At the end of those all otted turns, the unfortunatewraithwith this Flawrevertstonormal. Continuouswork and moliation over an extended periodof time(plus the appropriate expenditure of experience Traits) can over come this Flaweventually. I

## DISTINCTIVE APPEARANCE(I TRAIT FLAW)

Some feature (such as blue hair, a prominent tattoo carried over from life or eyes of different colors) really stands out about your character. Unlike having a botched moliation, this feature is not necessarily repulsive or problematic, but it's also not so me thing that a character could hope to change permanently, either. Indicate this feature by wearing makeup to simulate it (or by wearing a prominent card that describes it). The Moliate Arcanos could cover it up temporarily, of course. After the moliation, the character's appearance reverts to normal at the end of a scene. ## ROTTING ( a TRAIT LAW) or ganic matter in the land of the living decays and rots away eventually, and that fact haunts your character's mind. In fact, it's so closely tied to her conception of death that her very self-image as a dead thing is corrupted by rot. Chunks of her body are rotted away, and tatters of flesh hang over corded muscle. Naturally, this psychonecrosis do esn't necessarily hinder or damage the Corpus itself, but it's definitely unpleasant and unsightly. You suffer an automatic one-Trait penalty to Social Challenge resolution. When interacting with mortals, they react to the Fog (Oblivion, p. 234) much more strongly. If the player of the mortal wins his Static Mental Challenge against 20 Traits, the Storyteller or Narrator representing the Fog gets an automatic retest. ## F R A ~ I L E conpus (3 TRAIT fiLAW)

The strands of will that hold your character's plasm to get her just aren't as strong as those of many other wraiths. When he become insubstantial due to physical damage, he loses two levels of Corpus instead of just one. If he ever suffers four or more levels of damage in a single blow, you must win or tie a Simple Test, lest the character collapse immediately into a Harrowing. ## AMBIDCKTR~US ( I TRAIT MERIT)

Most people are good with just one hand or the other, but your character is equally good with both. You suffer no Trait penalty for using either hand since your character IS equally good with his right or left (or Moliated tentacle or what ever). Of course, you still suffer a one-Trait coordin ation penalty i f your character uses both hands at once, but you incur no additional penalty for using an uncoordin ated hand. Interestingly, many wraiths seem to slide toward ambidexterity over time. As a wraith's selfdimage changes, his sense of handedness may well erode. ## ~ u i i o p ~ I p e ( 1 - 4 TRAIT MERIT)

While most wraiths are sad, pallid things, your character's Corpus is so strong that it practically glows with vibrancy. The character seems more 'solid' than most plasm, and it's harder to discorporate her. For each Trait that you spend on this Merit, your character starts with one extra level of permanent Corpus. While above 10 Corpus, though, she is extraordin arily conspicuous to other entities in the lands of the dead. ## MALLCABLE ( a TRAIT MERIT)

Like the semi-liquid plasm from which it's for med, your character's Corpus flows into new shapes easily. Anyone using the Moliate Arcanos upon her (including herself) receives a two-Trait resolution bonus. ## DISEMBODIED (6 TRAIT MERIT)

Most wraiths form a corporeal shell that resembles an idealized version of their living form. your character, how ever, has discarded the entire not ion of flesh. He has no Corpus or body at all; he's just a floating voice, a collection of memories and thoughts. anything, nor can he interact with anyone physically. He has no Physical Traits at all. He can't even use Arcanoi that would interact with physical material, including Embody, Inhabit, Moliate, Outrage and Pandemonium. (Similar restrictions might apply to certain Jade Kingdom Arcanoi, too.) Obviously, havingnobodycanbeproblematic. Suchacharactercan'tactuallycarry

On the upside, your character is pretty much immune to physical trauma. He simply can't be hurt that way. Nobody can make Physical Challenges against you; weapons can't hurt your character because he's not there. Arcanoi and other powers that require touch or contact with some part of the body fail because he have no body to touch. Ifsome power that your character has would require you to make a Physical Challenge, just use a Mental Challenge instead. your character has no Corpus rating, so he obviously can't be sent into a normal Destruction Harrowing. Should he fall into a Harrowing by running out of will power (or, perhaps, by falling into a Harrowing with another wraith), yourisk permanent will power instead. If he ever runs out of permanent will power Traits, he disappears into Oblivion. You should wear a tag to indicate your character's discorporate status. It helps i f you wear a shroud or the like as well, so that you have no distinguishing features. Remember, though, that your character can not pick up, push or touch anything on either side of the Shroud. ## MENTAL MERITSAND

## A ~ ~ I C T I O N ( I - B TRAIT ~ ~ a

## ELAWS w )

Just as wraiths cling tenuously to theremnants of existence through for ce of will and memory, they sometimes fall victim to dangerous and compelling psychological drives. your character is attached to some activity or substance in such a fashion. If he is denied access to the subject of his addiction, you lose a number of Traits equal to the value of this Flaw in all test-resolutions. The source of this addiction may even be harmful in some way, but the character is miserable with out it. He will go to any lengths he can to fulfill this addiction (including Skinriding or possessing humans who indulge in it). ## COMPULSION ( I TRAIT #LAW) your character is compelled to perform some sort of not iceable, curious or harmful action. It may be a constant urge or just one that strikes at inconvenient times. Perhaps he can never seem to shut up, or maybe he twitches spasmodically for several seconds any time someone mentions the Hierarchy. Maybe he hoards every scrap of relic detritus he comes across, no matter how useless the junk seems at the time. You must role play the effects of the compulsion. You can spend a will power Trait to suppress the urge; if you fail to role play the compulsion, a Narrator may rule that you have spent such a Trait already. ## DARK SFCRET(I TRAIT LAW) your character keeps skeletons in the closet... possibly literally. Some dirty deed in her past haunts her. Although it's not widely known, i f knowledge of the misdeed were to get out, it would cause serious inconvenience. Perhaps she was Reaped by a Mnemos, or maybe she opened the gates to a Citadel for the Spectres. Worse still, situations seem to come up from time to time where her dark secret might get out. She may have to make difficult or embarrassing compromises to keep the truth under wraps. The Storyteller determines when and how the secret comes up in play. Should it ever be exposed, your character is likely to suffer the social consequences. Gaining an enemy or losing status are just two of the possibilities. ## B C H O E S O P T H E p A S T ( 1 - 3 T R A I T ELAW)

Whether consciously or not, your character can't leave the living world behind. Some trapping associated with him in life continues to bleed into the living lands even after his death. Some characteristic or trait associated with the character during his mortal days continues to manifest where ver he goes, even in a fashion not iceable to the living. the se manifestations are uncontrollable, and they don't relate directly to your character's actions. Rather, they just 'happen' in the material world when he's around. For one Trait, the character causes a specific, peculiar scent in the world of the living. People might catch a whiff of a perfume that she used to wear or smell the cordite from the gun involved in her death. This scent is not iceable to anyone who searches for it specifically. Someone who has a vague idea that so me thing is wrong -perhaps because of a subtle use of Arcanoi in the are a-can make a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of six Traits), with success indicating that he not ices the scent and recognizes it. For two Traits, your character's presence causes sounds in the physical realm. People might hear ghostly footsteps, catch the hint of rattling chains or not ice a distant laugh. People in the immediate are a will almost certainly hear some manifestation, although the sounds are not constant, and someone who just brushes by may not be present for an echo. (Use a Static Mental Challenge atadifficultyofsix Traitsfromsomeonenearyou ifhe might hear an unexpected echo.) People near your location -just outside the room, for instance -might hear an echo i f one occurs. A Static Mental Challenge (difficulty of eight Traits) is appropriate, although someone who's listening specifically for such things would not ice the effect. forthree Traits, your wraith actually causes some sort of visual manifestation. Perhaps people see dancing can dle flames when she's around or a hazy blob of light or a hallucin atory, translucent image of so me thing important to your character in life. People in the room with you will almost certainly not ice and be startled by such manifestations. Individuals with in a reason able distance will not ice such things i f they succeed on a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of six Traits. You can take this Flaw multiple times to generate multiple Effects. For six Traits, your character creates a hazy image accompanied by strange sounds and smells. ## o ~ &amp; R C O N ~ ~ I D F N T ( I TRAIT BLAW) your character believes in a rather exaggerated impression of his actual capabilities. While most people have enough sense not to get in over their heads, he honestly believes that he's better than he really is, and he lets that belief get him into trouble. During situations in which he's under duress or threat, your character is likely to for ge ahead heedless of the consequences and convinced of victory. ## PHOBIA(2TRAITFLAW)

Some over power ing fear seizes your character in the presence of a specific object or situation. This fear may be tied to circumstances of her death -a fear of large bodies of water, for a drowning victim -or it may come from some hidden impulse that predates her demise. When the character encounters the object of her fear, you must expend a will power Trait or retreat in terror. If unable to escape, fear makes the character shaky and uncertain. You are two Traits do wn on all challenges in such a situation. ## ~ o N n u s F D ( a TRAIT ILAW)

The world is a disjointed place. Everything is disturbed, noisy and grating. Maybe your mind was unhinged during death, or perhaps you can't seem to filter out all the back ground chaos of the under world. You are always a bit distracted and disoriented, but when you are subjected to intense stimuli, such as a sudden whipping of a Maelstrom, a barrage of conversation from multiple people or a loud and chaotic situation, your mind simply can't make sense of it all. Under such stress you must spend a will power Trait to over come your problems for the scene, or else you just curl up, helplessly unable to cope with your surroundings. ## CURIOSITY(aTRAIT fLAW)

Well, your character's already died, so it's not like curiosity can kill him, right? He just tends to stick his nose into anything and everything. When presented with an innocuous little mystery -a locked container, a secret room, a mysterious library or the like -you must win a Simple Test, lest your character mosey on into trouble. ## ~ B s c s s I o N ( a TRAIT PLAW)

A driving fixation permeates your character's every thought and drives him to unhealthy extremes in pursuit of his fascin ation. of ten, he finds himself in difficult straits because of the obsession. Perhaps he would spend his last obolus for some relic of a sort that he collects obsessively, or maybe he hangs out around some Skinlands are a that's dangerous to him. Only by spending a will power Trait can you over come your character's obsession for a short time. Storytellers should make sure that obsessions do not tie into strong Passions. A disadvantage that isn't a disadvantage isn't really worth much, after all. ## VCNq'EANCE (a T R A I T PLAW)

A certain score must be settled, whether it's against some still-living foes or against an already-dead one, and your character intends to see justice do ne. Heck, maybe your character intends to kill her enemy the n send him screaming to Oblivion. In short, someone did your wraith wrong, and now she's driven in the pursuit of a vendetta. You must spend a will power Trait if your character has an opportunity to pursue her vengeance but you want to avoid do ing so-for instance, to avoid screaming and charging into the Labyrinth to get the Spectre that Harrowed your daughter's ghost. Again, Storytellers should make sure that the Vengeance Flaw do es not tie into any Passions. the wraithdoesnotdrawstrengthfrom hervengeance; she just has anunrelenting need to get even. ## D R I V I N ~ 9 0 a L ( 3 TRAIT PLAW)

Some overreaching goal pushes your character on, even past the strength of will that it took to cheat death. He'll never achieve this goal completely, but he keeps trying. This goal is limitless in depth, yet your character feels compelled to strive toward it constantly. Examples of such goals include proving to the living world that ghosts really do exist, tearing do wn the Hierarchy entirely and making an all-inclusive map of all of the Far Shores. You don't gain any bonus Traits when pursuing your character's driving goal, but you must spend a will power Trait to avoid pursuing it. The goal directs and focuses all of your character's actions. Like other similar Flaws, Driving Goal can not tie to a wraith's Passions. ## PLASHBACKS (3 T R A I T PLAW)

When your character is under stress, he flashes back to some similar horrible situation in his past. Perhaps he has memories of his time as a soldier, and he suffers post-traumatic stress syndrome. Maybe he relives horrible memories of a torturous adolescence. It's entirely possible that he relives the events of his most recent Harrowing time and again. While the wraith suffers the se flashbacks, he's of f in his own little world. He can't hear or interact with the people and circumstances around him. He might sometimes incorporate a person or action into the nightmare fantasy, but it's always in the fashion of what he hallucin ates, which means that he's functionally useless for at least a full turn. Flashbackscannot trigger a Passion. your character has a deep and abiding respect for life. Perhaps she was always this compassionate, or maybe she got that way after she lost her own. Either way, she is loath to use violence or to inflict harm on others. She'll never endanger people or other wraiths will ingly, nor will she actively harm another person. the se objections aren't nearly as strong with respect to animals, Spectres and other creatures, but she still dislikes violence or inflicting injury in any form. If the character is for ced into a confrontational situation, she may go so far as to defend herself, but you suffer a one- or two-Trait penalty because the character's heart isn't in it. Such a character would sooner run away from a fight than hurt someone in self-defense. I

## LIFESAVER(3 TRAIT FLAW)

## COMMON SENSE (I TRAIT MERIT) they say common sense ain't nearly so common the se days, but your character is a repository of such wisdom. Her intuition and folk sayings carry her through many a rough situation with simple wit. When your character is about to do something impractical or just stupid, the Storyteller will stop you and warn you that the action may not be sensible. This Merit is excellent for new players, in keeping the m from making mistakes due to inexperience playing the game. ## CONCENTRATION ( I TRAIT MERIT)

When your character focuses on a task, he shuts out all distractions completely and lets absolute precision over take him. not hing shakes this resolve. You never suffer any penalty Traits due to environmental circumstances such as loud noises, strobing lights or how ling Maelstrom-winds. ## L I ~ A T N I N ~ CALCULATOR( I TRAIT MERIT) your character has a natural talent with numbers. He performs complex calculations in his head with ease and near-perfect accuracy. Higher mathematics such as calculating standard deviation and variance or calculating trajectory require A few moments more of thought (and the expenditure of a Mental Trait). Number the or y may be entirely beyond you, but nobody's perfect. I f your character has this Merit, you never need to test to perform basic math calculations on the fly. You [the player] can use a calculator, ifyou like, even ifyour character do esn't own one; the character runs all the numbers in his head. Vegas casino owners hate people like this. ## CODE O P HONOR( a TRAIT MERIT)

Acharacterwithastrongcode of honor continues to follow aspecificset of beliefs, even after death. This discipline gives the wraith strength, and his adherence to his code stands out as exceptional. Work with the Storyteller to detail the code of honor as aspecific ethical or moral framework. Although your character may not delineate it in specific terms, it should be written do wn out of game to give a basic idea of what behavior he considers unacceptable. Any time supernatural compulsion is brought to bear in a manner that would violate said code of honor, you get a free retest to resist. ## EI D E T I C M E M O R Y ( B TRAIT MERIT) your character has a mind like a steel trap, and this one's not rusty. She remembers the general sense of most events that she experiences, and she's particularly good at remembering names, dates and written material. After a single turn of concentration, she can memorize a page of material or the gist of a scene completely. do ing so requires a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of six Traits, if the character is in combat or otherwise under duress. You should have a small 'cheat sheet' of not es so that you and the Storyteller can agree on what your character has committed to memory.. lncidentallv. rnc'moric's of this ilualit\r arc cxtremelv clear and conclse to the. Mnemosvnrs, I, I Arcanos. A Mnemos who delves into the se memories sees them with vivid clarity. Conversely, i f someone tries to erase or alter said memories, the operation leaves jagged 'holes' around the are a affected. therefore, you get a free retest to defend against memory manipulation, but others looking in on your character's memories gain a retest to draw out details. ## NATURAL LINBUIST( B TRAIT MERIT)

Although your character don't necessarily have the ability to learn extra languages automatically, he do es have a powerful command of language in general. He finds it easy to sort out principles and ideas in other languages. You get a three-Trait bonus in all challenges related to any languages that your character knows. Of course, since all wraiths speak the language of the dead, this Merit is most useful with written material or when interacting with the Quick. ## I R O N WILL(+ TRAIT MERIT)

It's very difficult to shake a character with an iron will from his chosen course. Even magical compulsions take minimal hold against such for midable determin ation. You may expend a will power Trait to gain a retest against any use of the vampiric do min ate Discipline, and if you win, your character is immune to that vampire's further uses of do min ate against him fortherest of the scene. Furthermore, you gain three extra Traits in all defenses against direct mental (not emotional) manipulation. ## S C L P C O N P I D F N T ( 5 TRAIT MEBIT)

In difficult situations, your character draws upon a reservoir of skill and confidence to perform with grace. When your character is for ced to perform some difficult task, you need only spend a will power Trait to succeed automatically. When you're making a Static Challenge with a difficulty of six Traits or more, you can spend a will power Trait for automatic success. This trick works only i f the subject of the challenge is not another character. your character could manage to open a tough lock automatically (if he has the Security Ability), or he might manage to jump across a chasm, but he wouldn't be able to use the benefits of this Merit to Crescendo someone into Oblivion. not e specifically that this Merit supersedes the normal ruling that will power can not be used to win a Static Challenge automatically. Remember, though, that it do es not apply to Simple Tests, to challenges with a difficulty of less than six Traits or to challenges against other characters (including Narrator characters). ## SOCIAL MERITSAND ELAWS E N E M Y ( 1-5 TRAIT E L A ~ )

Someone out there is after your character, and he wants her dead, dead, dead. (For good this time.) This enemy is probably a fellow wraith or a Spectre, but it might be some other sort of creature capable of causing serious problems. The Trait value of this Flaw determines the overall potency of the enemy. For one Trait, your character has an opponent roughly similar in power to herself; for five Traits, a seemingly unstoppable enemy is out to do her in. The motives of this enemy should tie in to your character's back ground and history in some fashion. The Storyteller determines when and how the enemy intervenes in storiespossibly even to the point of going after your character's entire Circle as well. ## s H r ( I TRAIT E L A ~ )

Some people are just uncomfortable around crowds and in social situations. When your charactermeetsnewpeople, hegetstongue-tied; when herunsintogroupsofthreeormore, he'spositivelyflummoxed. you suffera two-Traitpenalty onall socialdealingswithgroups of three or more. this penalty rises to three Traitswith groups of 10 or more. ## BooN(I-3 TRAIT MERIT)

Someone owes your character. Maybe this someone is a lowly wraith among a Renegade gang, or maybe he's an important Hierarchy of ficial. The more important the wraith, and the more he owes, the greater the value of the boon. For one Trait, someone owes your character for going out of her way on his behalf. He'll give you useful information or shelter, but he probably won't do anything risky for her. For two Traits, your character did someone a serious favor. This someone might sneak your wraith some contraband or look the other way while she cross through restricted territory. He may also speak up on her behalf with in his or ganization once or twice. (Just hope that he do esn't go into Catharsis and sell your character out.)

forthree Traits, some wraith pretty much owes his existence to your character. He'll shield and protect her to the best of his ability, speak up for her with his or ganization and even break A few wraithly laws to pay of f the debt. not e that if a powerful Gaunt owes your character are a boon, how ever, the wraith probably won't give her as much as a less powerful wraith would. One can assume that a Gaunt has sufficient influence and power to pay his debts with little effort, after all. This Merit assumes that the wraith in question feels bound for some reason to pay back the boon, be it through blackmail or just an unquiet conscience. ## MORTAL C O M p A N I O N ( a T R A I T MERIT)

Despite death and the Fog, your character has managed to keep reasonably close ties with a living person. This person may be a parapsychologist, a medium or just someone who has a mutual tie to one of your character's Fetters. This person is as helpful and sympathetic as a still-living person can be to a ghost, but she do es have a life, and she won't always be able to help out directly. Plus, A few episodes of Catharsis may make this acquaintance rethink therelationship. Still, i f you exercise A few Arcanoi on this person's behalf, you can of ten expect a good return in the living world. ## PSYCHIC all Y(+ TRAIT M E ~ I T )

Not only is your character on decent terms with a mortal, but that mortal is a bona fide sensitive. The mortal can perceive ghostly visitations in some fashion, and he accepts the existence of ghosts for exactly what it is. your Storyteller must determine the full extent of the mortal's powers and motivations, as well as how that person manages to communicate with the other side. Furthermore, some vindictive or desperate wraiths may try to steal away or hurt this link to the other side. (See Laws of the Hunt for some ideas about mortals with psychic powers and the ability to speak to the dead.)

## SUPERNATURAL MERITSAND

## c ~ R ~ E ~ ( I - J

## ELAWS TRAIT P L A ~ )

Some awful bane afflicts your character, even beyond death. In certain circumstances, he may find himself compelled to do terrible things, or perhaps some things just never go right. The strength of the curse determines the value of this Flaw. For one Trait, perhaps one always suffers dire consequences from betraying a confidence. For five Traits, maybe the character is so cursed that he will wander the lands of the dead endlessly with out surcease or rest, unable to ever Transcend or even make a modicum of success in his endeavors to protect his Fetters or Passions. ## DAMNED ( I TRAIT BLAW)

Despite being a believer in some mortal religion, your character has come to realize that the endless Purgatory of the Shadowlands is just another torment and another lie in the chink of his for mer faith. when ever your character enters a place sacred to his for mer religion, you lose a will power Trait each minute due to the psychological stress. If he touches an art i fact of the faith (material or corporeal), he suffers a level of Corpus damage as his form sloughs of f in agony of this existence. The Storyteller should make sure that the player selects a religion that may actually appear in the course of the game. A Zoroastrian is unlikely to suffer much inconvenience from this Flaw in a modern urban setting. ## ~ R p R o p e R L y BURIED ( I TRAIT ELAW)

Many superstitions surround the practices of burial. By your character's beliefs, he was interred improperly. Perhaps he was buried with out clothes, or maybe he needed to be buried in his family's grave plot, but such was not to be the case. what ever the case, he suffers extreme discomfort in the after life. This difficulty with his own corpse causes him to suffer by taking your own body as a Fetter (and not as a free one, either), but you gain no Trait bonuses when trying to resolve or affect it. Instead, you suffer a one-Trait resolution penalty when your character tries to affect his corpse. He might over come this Flaw i f someone finally inters his body properly (and you spend two experience Traits). ## TH E BARD'S To~guc ( I TRAIT ELAW)

Terrible truths come from your character's lips, completely unbidden and with out for ewarning. It's not that he sees the future; rather, things that he says have an uncanny way of coming true. Once per game session, some uncomfortable truth will come out of your character's mouth, and the dire predictions of this event are almost certain to pass. Should a Storyteller not e a particularly appropriate phrase, the n when it has a chance of fulfillment, anyone trying to resist it must make an automatic retest and take the worst result. Thus, such a character might remarkoffhandedly, 'Just what we need. What's next, a batch of Spectres?' only to hear cackling and how ling A few minutes later. Perhaps he'll not e, 'You'll never be able to cross the Shroud like that,' and suddenly find that the player of the character to who m he said it must retest his next attempt to use Embody. ## TIRE Crc~c(I-5 TRAIT ELAW) your character's death is tied somehow to a repeating pattern of time. The Shroud's effective rating is one to four Traits higher for you (equal to the value of the Flaw), except for certain times when you can reach normally. If your character has a certain 'hour of death' that works for her each day, this Flaw is worth its normal value. If she is limited to, say, only one day a month, add one Trait to the Flaw's value. You should tie this time to an actual event surrounding your character's death. If she died at sea, she might only be able to affect the world at the hours around high and low tide. If she was killed on a Sunday, she can only touch the world on Sundays. ## B C H O E S ( a - 5 TRAIT &amp; AW)

Old wives' tales and superstitions about ghosts are true with respect to your character. When he's around, animals react strongly; open flames seem to hypnotize him; running water bars his passage, as do es seasalt; his outline sometimes appears in fog. Sounds he makes can be recorded on tape, and he might even leave bits of ectoplasm on things that he touches in the living lands. your character can't control this phenomenon; he just seems to reflect the are a residents' beliefs regarding the behavior of ghosts naturally. The value of this Flaw depends upon its severity. For two Traits, the character may just make the occasional bump in the night or cold spot. For five Traits, he slimes everything he touches, he causes animals to hiss and spit at him, and he can be driven out by exorcism rites and wards against the Evil Eye. ## LIMITED L I ~ E S I ~ H T ( ~ TRAIT PLAW) your character has great difficulty seeing living things and their patterns. While most wraiths can sense the general patterns of emotion and life in people, you suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty in such challenges (Oblivion, p. 160). To your character, the living world is blurry and difficult to see, almost as i f the shroud of death itself keeps him from tying back into the brilliance of the living. ## LIMITED DFATHSI~HT( a TRAIT PLAW) your character's ability to discern patterns of injury and decay is quite limited. Maybe she rejects death so much that she can't sense it in others, or perhaps it's just not part of her conception of ghostly power. For what ever reason, you suffer a two-Trait resolution penalty in all challenges with Deathsight (Oblivion, p. 160). ## ~ o v N o ( 3 TRAIT law)

Some place or event holds such significance to your character that he can't leave it. Maybe he can haunt only a house where he lived and died, or perhaps he haunts a particular tree. You can not move more than 100 yards from this location, and you must take it as a Fetter. Naturally, this Flaw can limit your story possibilities a great deal, so choose carefully! Should the character ever resolve this Fetter, you will be able to leave the are a, than kfully. ## DISEMBODIED! h A D O W ( 3 TRAIT PLAW)

Most wraiths just have dark urges in their minds encouraging them to do nasty things. For your wraith, though, those urges manifest in the form of asmall plasmic animal or object. It can manifest at odd times, even moving around to interact with things as if it has one Physical Trait. If it's discorporated by for ce, the Shadow simply dissolves back into your character's head to torment him internally. (You can't get away from it that easily!) While the Shadow exists In this external form, you must speak aloud to address it. You should carry a prop or card that represents this disembodied Shadow. From time to time, your Storyteller or Shadowguide may rule that it's harassing someone or playing around with objects in the vicinity. ## UMBRAL cONNGCTION(3 TRAIT PLAW)

By some quirk of chance, your character's existence extends into the middle Umbra, the mirror of the vibrant living lands. Although he can not see or affect the Umbra, spirits that wander there can see him as a pale shade. were wolves or magicians can even use their magical powers to affect such an unfortunate character, binding him or banishing him while he remains unaware of what exactly is going on. ## DARE g A T E (5 TRAIT PLAW) your character is do omed not only to an existence more horrid than this wraithly one, but to a fin al end where all of his struggles come to naught. Worse still, he is aware of this fate through vague dreams, hunches or premonitions -or maybe just because some malicious demon or Shadow told him about it. At some point, his struggles will end, and he will go on to a fate more terrible than Oblivion, more repugnant than Spectrehood and more inevitable than death. your Storyteller will design this fin al end, of which you may have occasional premonitions. ## UNKNOWN dETTER(1-5 TRAIT MERIT)

Some connection ties your character to a place or object, but he has no idea what it is or why he's connected. Certain Arcanoi might help one to identify this Fetter, but otherwise it's a mystery. This Merit is actually quite handy, though, because nobody else is likely to know of the Fetter either, and thus it's not at great risk of destruction by enemies. the n again, a wraith can't protect a Fetter i f he do esn't know what it is. The value of this Merit depends on the value and durability of the Fetter in question. If the Fetter is unlikely to suffer from outside intervention, it costs more to be unknown. If neither your character nor his enemies ever discover it, it may exist for ever! A Fetter that's at risk of discovery or that is more easily disposable costs less. ## COLD ( B TRAIT MERIT)

Remember those tales of ghosts causing 'cold spots' in haunted are as! they're true with your character. When he walks through an are a, the temperature drops not iceably in the living lands. This drop can draw attention to the character's presence, and it could even be tracked and measured with heat-sensing gear. On the other hand, most mortals will only shiver and try to get away. B y applying the effects of this Merit carefully, a ghost can encourage people to leave a haunt or to pay attention to him, or even communicate crudely with the living. (This cold spot is just a blob of low-temperature, though. The wraith with this Merit do es not appear as a ghostly silhouette i f viewed through infrared goggles.)

## ~ u c w ( 3 TRAIT MERIT)

All right, your character can't be all that lucky -she's dead, after all -but for tune do es seem to favor her. You have three Lucky Traits that you can use for retests on any challenge. As usual, you can only use one such Trait on any given challenge. the se Traits refresh each game session. ## OTHER HALE ( 3 TRAIT MERIT)

Some philosophers believe that each person is a half-soul, who can find completion only by discovering its other half in another person. Well, your character did just that. This other half is just about anyone still living -casual acquaintance, old friend, relative, what ever -but the depth of the connection is profound. Count this individual as one of your wraith's Fetters (no, not as afree one). when ever the character is near this individual (with in, say, the same room), he regains one Corpus Trait per hour. Any bonuses that you'd gain for acting on the person are do ubled, making it very easy for your character to attune the individual and the n use his Arcanoi on him. You can not take both this Merit and the Merit: True Love. ## B R I g H T ( 4 T R A I T M E R I T )

Even the Shroud can not staunch the intensity of your character's drives. His desire to exist beyond life is so powerful that he practically radiates his emotions into the living lands. (Or, perhaps he do esn't intend to do so, but for some reason, he finds that the Shroud do esn't keep him from interacting there.) You gain a one-Trait bonus to resolution of tests across the Shroud, and any mortal who cares to interact with your character gains a similar one Trait bonus on the test to not ice him. Furthermore, all mortals gain a free retest against the Fog when dealing with such a character. The emotions he generates are so intense that it impresses him on their minds and memories. ## TRUE h V E ( 4 TRAIT MERIT)

At some point, in either life or death, your character found a true love. Memories of this joy buoy him in difficult situations, and the thought of his love is enough to keep him pressing on when the after life seems stacked against him. You gain a one-Trait bonus on all challenges in which your character is acting to directly maintain his relationship with his true love (for as long as his true love reciprocates the feeling). You can not take both this Merit and the Merit: Other Half. ## WEAKSHADOW(4TRAITMERIT) your character's dark emotions have limited sway over him. Perhaps his superego is stronger than most, or maybe he's just a naturally temperate soul. your character's Shadow must win or tie a Simple Test to enter Catharsis after spending five Angst, and it gains Angst from Dark Passions only if it wins a Simple Test, rather than getting a retest on a tie (see Oblivion, p. 170). I

## TRUE ~ A I T H (7 TRAIT MERIT)

The strength of your character's religious convictions buoys her. She believes firmly that some sentient power guides and watches over the cosmos. Although this existence may not be the after life she was promised, her strength of character expresses itself in the unshakeable devotion to her principles. You receive the benefits of the Merit: Code of H o n o r, plus an added perk. Attempts to coerce your character to eschew or betray her code of honor -be they supernatural or attempted Social Challenges based on your character's Nature -fail automatically. You may also make a Simple Test after using an Eidolon Trait to put do wn your character's Shadow. If you win that test, you do not lose that Eidolon Trait (as you should, as per Oblivion p. 136). ## SNAAS

## EVENT HORIZON: UPCOMING LARP

## VAMPIRE EVENTS

## NORTHWESTERN US

Blood Moon Social Club; Las Vegas, NV www. bloodmoonsocialclub. com (702)877-1813

Ruby Rain Society; Mountlake, WA Tracy Soldan, tarot01@juno. com

Dark Necropolis; Kitsap, WA mrdeath@u. was hington. edu

Tacoma; Tacoma, WA sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu

The Outlands; South King County, WA Christopher Buser, Buserc@mindspring. com 425-687-8093

MIDWESTERN US

Crimson Facade; Indianapolis, IN Paul M. Starr, tophat@indy. net (317)466-9064

Trails End Troupe; or egon City, OR the Chylde@aol. com the atre of Roses; Portland, OR Kewi-Cee Chu, kc@csua. berkely. edu

Dark Salem; Salem, OR Preston Malone, Coordin atrix@hotmail. com

Nox ad Infinitum; Fairbanks, AK fsdck@aurora. alaska. edu

Ivory Masque; Anchorage, AK glitter\_boy@hotmail. com

Dark Tears; Walla Walla, WA annapuma@hotmail. com

All Seattle Camarilla-run games seattledc@hotmail. com www. lovelys. com/seattlecam

## SOUTHWESTERN US

Baptism of Fire; San Diego, CA Maggie Mac do nald, maggie5@home. com (619)425-1587 http://www. larp. com/vespasian do main of Mountain Shadows; Provo, UT Nikki Mc Coriston, N. Burton@m. cc. utah. edu (801)363-3959

Moonlight Masquerade; Marysville, CA Jennifer young, kaidin@syix. com

## NORTHCENTRALUS do minion of Solitude; Topeka,KS Jeffery P. Harrington, harri999@geocities.com

SOUTHCENTRAL US Central Texas LARP; Killeen/Temple, TX D. R. Hood, Pangea@vvm. com (254)947-1339

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870)931-0959

Labyrinth of Crying Shadows (Sabbat Game); Sacramento, CA Adam Abramson, vallombrosa@hotmail. com

Paraiso de Espin as/Paradise of Thorns; Phoenix/Tucson, AZ Jonni Crowell-Griffith, Salvjedora@aol. com (520)722-2688

Phoenix By Night; Phoenix, AZ Wm. R. Szabo Il, wrszabo@asu. edu www. public. asu. edu/~jamesb/pbn/

Ground Zero; Colorado Springs, CO Travis Page, Darkholme@kkrv. com (719)328-0605

Ebon Seraph; Omaha, NE davosburgh@aol. com

Garden of Thoms; Clear Lake, TX wesley\_ooc@juno. com

Midnight Rose; Clear Lake, TX prefect@texas. net

House of the Eternal Rose; Clear Lake, TX prefect@texas. net

Fourth Tower Falling; Dallas, TX David do ub, Brujah@gte. net (972)788-1895

Legio Noctem; Dallas, TX Billy Lucas, will iamlucas@juno. com (972)788-1895

Kentucky Fried; Dallas, TX Lance Gillson, nooneofconsequence@usa. net (972)788-1895

## THE GREAT LARES

Coterie of the Crimson Night; St. Louis, MO Jamie Schneider, jaclon@juno. com (314)837-3640

theredemption Chronicles; Edwardsville, IL floodrk@earthlink. net

## NORTHEAST US

Severed Sun; Boston, MA Sean do nnelly (617)656-2891

## EAST CENTRALUS

Bay of Blood; Baltimore, MD Ed Adelsberger edla@erols. com www. geocities. com/Colosseum/ side line/5931/

Eighth Legion; Dallas, TX James Potter, kingsnight@hotmail. com (972)788-1895

Bryan/College Station; Bryan/College Station, TX Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamu. edu

Impiorum Pecatta ("Sins of the Damned"); Warrensburg, MO Storyteller: Jason Hibdon, eugee@cyberjunkie. com www. cyberjunkie. com/eugee

House of the Crescent Moon; Boston, MA giovanni@cybercom. net (617) 576-1097

Blood Masks: Cincinnatus By Night; Cincinnati, Ohio Brian-Joseph Baker, Elomae@aol. com 513-777-7778

The Dark Capital do main Chris Herr, mephis@juno. com (703)273-5530

Das Dae'Mar; State Capitol Complex, WV Wachu DancR@aol. com

Dayton: Valley of the Shadow; Dayton, Ohio Lee Highfield schlgrmstr@aol. com 937-222-2330

House of the Unknown; Pittsburgh, PA cam@and rew. cmu. edu

The Most Deadly Game; Baltimore, MD Joseph Palser, palserj@columbia. aim-smart. com

## SOUTHEAST US

Club Seraphim; Norfolk, VA www. angelfire. com/va Club Seraphim club\_seraphim@hotmail. com

Ft. Lauderdale; Ft. Lauderdale, FL Print Error@mindless. com

Macon by Night; Macon, GA Shonda Slaughter, Lucinda Wst@aol. com http://www. city of shadows. or g

Mudge Lounge; Pittsburgh, PA cam@and rew. cmu. edu

A Stake in the Heartland Il; Northeast Ohio Ryan S. Cope, cedric@neo. rr. com (330)923-4483

Shadows on the Mall; was hington, D. C. Abigail Moore Shoemaker, ams@gwis2. circ. gwu. edu members. aol. com/dellacruz/SotM/ Index. html

Towson LARP; Baltimore, MD Ryan Sachse, tsachse@ycp. edu

Vitae Aeternus; Hyattsville, MD Royal Connell, underdog@clark. net

New or leans night fall; New or leans, LA Mark Leberecht, Frost@acadiacom. net (504)943-9814

Night's Children; Atlanta, GA Jason Norred, hemlock@mindspring. com http://arp. digitribe. or g

Seraphim Saloon; Norfolk, VA club\_seraphim@hotmail. com http://www. angelfire. com/va/ Club Seraphim

Shades of Pale Society; Chattanooga, TN Laura Middleton, shades@larp. com (423)876-4561

House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

Athens by Night; Athens, GA Storyteller List: abn-st@math. gatech. edu

Charlestonus Ab Noctum; Charleston, SC Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

Eclipsed Moon; Charleston, SC lan Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

Kindred of the shadows; Auburn, AL boudrej@mail. auburn. edu

Shadows of Vulcan; Birmingham, AL Sarah Riggs, coordin ator@shadowsofvulcan. com

Blood Moon; Charleston, SC Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

Libertas Aeterna; Charlotte, NC Tim Harris, harrist@cs. winthrop. edu

GAROU

## NORTHEAST US

Apocalypse Rochester, Rochester NY Chris Manos, cmanos@worldnet. att. net

NORTHWESTUS

Ruby Rain Society; Edmonds, WA Tracy Soldan, tarot01@juno. com

Tacoma; Tacoma, WA sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728 the atre of Roses; Battleground, WA Kwei-Cee Chu, kc@csua. berkeley. edu

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu

Olde Guard; Anchorage, AK Tom Alexander, nightstalker@customcpu. com

## EASTCENTRAL US

The Sept of the Awakening; was hington D. C. Mindy will iams, terhunepayson@juno. com

## NORTHCENTBAL US

Knights of Rage; Colorado Springs, CO Dan Page, all mity Bob@aol. com (719)447-0399

## SOUTHCENTRALUS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870) 931-0959

## SOUTHEAST US

House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

Onyx Illumin atus; Charleston, SC lan Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

Fourth Tower Falling; Dallas, TX Matt Ragan, matt\_ragan@hotmail. com (972)788-1895

Bryan/College Station; Bryan/College Station, TX Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamu. edu

## rUS

Kdge ngautx Lhe Darkness; Tempe, AZ Collin Toohey, Cy bertec@cyberdude. com (602) 942-4994

Kevin Lynch 11, KWLynch@aol. com Song of Sonora; Tucson, AZ (520) 722-2688

## OTHERS ( UNS~ECIEIEDAND MIXED C~AMES)

Dark Carpathia, Portland, Maine http://home. maine. rr. com/ darkcarpathia/darkcarp. html

East of the River, Vernon, CT D. Scott Stewart, storyteller@eotr. or g fortress of the Mind's Eye: Lansing, MI Aaron Ledger, 1edgeraa Qpilot. msu. edu (517) 372-1452

Imagin ation Shop the ater Guild Fridays: Sacramento, CA Alternate Saturdays: Santa Cruz, CA Sundays: Santa Rosa, CA Pete Magnetti, I STG-M AIN @hot mai l. com (9 16) 369-6948

More Than Night: Portland, or egon (Independent game that sometimes playtests upcoming supplements) Bruce Baugh, bruce-baugh@sff. net

Nox Imperium; Longview, WA katzmeow@kalama. com

Of Shadow &amp; Light, Cincinnati, Ohio Brian-Joseph Baker, bakebj b@email. uc. edu (513) 777-7778

Trails End Troupe; Salem, O R Coordin atrix@hotmail. com

United San Diego; San Diego, CA Dennis 'Tristan' Hanson, do llphynn@aol. com