=== PAGE 1 === B L O D L I N E B O K: SAMEDI A Sourcebook for VAMPIRE: The Masquerade By Joanne Fitz Roy (gfitzroy@intranet.ca) The Gris-Gris Club What immortal hand or eye, Could frame thy fearful symmetry -- will iam Blake, The Tyger I am the color of audacity, Of rhythmic tribal dance, of tropic love; I am that tint released upon the air When cymbals kiss, or comets meet alone. -- Louisa Fletcher, Mandarin Red Credits Written by: Jo "Are you giving me attitude" Fitz Roy Developed by: Jo Fitz Roy Edited by: Glenn Fitz Roy and Jason C. Marshall Layout and Typesetting: J. Fitz Roy and Jason C. Marshall Special than ks to: Steve "Watch that Redcap" Locke, Jason C. "You're Fired" Marshall, Glenn "More Power!" Fitz Roy, Bill "Not Again!" Samuel. Special Credit to Paul Michael Graham (or iginal Sons of Samuel information via Internet) David St. Clair (author of Drum and can dle, a book on Brazilian Voodoo and Spiritism) Introduction

=== PAGE 2 === they're heeler! -- Poltergeist We bother you, don't we? All you pretty Kindred wrapped up in you r pretty politics. All nice and clean and secret and perfectly hidden. Well guess what guys...the stiffs are here, and we're not going away. Face it, guys. Whether you were created last millennium, last century or last week, you're dead. Dead as that cat that you squashed on the highway last week. Dead as the proverbial do or nail. Dead as you r grandmother you buried when you were six years old. (Or maybe not. Ever wonder why it was a closed coffin? She's really a nice old lady. Hee, hee.) But you try. You still build you r ivory towers. Carry on with you r business, manipulations and intrigue like it really matters. Like you are still making a difference. Well guess what? It do esn't matter. None of it matters. We've all got a one way ticket straight to Hell, and it sickens you too much to be reminded of it. That's what bugs you about our kind. That's why you spread the lies, shrug us of f, send Holy Rollers and quest-crazed Neonates out to hunt us do wn. You want to send us back to the grave, back to Old Mother Earth because we don't fit in with you r plan of a beautiful perpetual everlife. Because if you look too long or too hard into our infected eyes, if you scry into our tortured minds, you see each and every one of you rselves. Just a little bit. Way deep do wn. you r precious immortality has made you vain and arrogant. You consider you rselves a species above the others, the next step as it were, in evolution. Caine help us all. If it weren't for the Nosferatu, you know, we'd probably give up on our kind altogether. Yeah, the Sewer Rats make pretty good buddies, but they're always looking over the ir should er. The pretty boy politicos have do ne a good job psyching the m out, making the m cower and hide the ir imperfections in hovels and holes. when ever we meet, we always remind the m that it is on the Nosferatu's backs that most Princes remain strong. they're always good for a laugh and an exchange of vital info. the se guys give good coin for protection and the right lead. Maybe they like us because when we're around, even they look pretty damn good. Now those European dudes, the Giovanni. Brrrr, don't like to mess with the m much. Seems way back they were playing around with the Necromantic fabric of the universe, or some such crap like that, and somebody screwed up. Wham, bam, the re we were, and the re ain't not hing the Italianos can do about it now. So they packaged us up, shipped us overseas and now if any of the m come across one of us, they pay us really good hush money to keep moving. Suits us fine. You know why they do that? Because in the ir deepest heart of misplaced hearts, they know we really are all alike. You all know. We're all dead. We're all decaying, rotting, returning to the soil, just as the Ultimate Plan intended. And it frightens you. We frighten you. In our kind, you see that which we must all become. Sooner or later, all our times will come. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, Kindred and Kine alike, we all rot and with er and fade away. Reality bites, pal, and it carries the Samedi sting. === PAGE 3 === Chapter One: The Real Scoop Welcome to my nightmare, I think you're gonna like it. I think you're gonna feel you belong. -- Alice Cooper, Welcome to my Nightmare The Creation The Samedi bloodline's creation has been blamed both on the Nosferatu and the Giovanni at one time or another. While the Samedi have an affinity for the Nosferatu, it stems purely from a mutual respect for each other's afflictions. For the beginnings of the Samedi Bloodline, we must look into the darker side of the Giovanni. The bloodline's creation is a very well kept secret of Clan Giovanni. Back about 250 years ago Antonio Giovanni stepped over the line in his Necromantic experiments. In an attempt to capture a human soul at the moment of death and transfer it into the body of a Vampire in torpor which was just about to suffer final death, something went very wrong. For one thing, Antonio's timing was slightly of f. Instead of transferring the soul into a Vampire, the Kindred was already experiencing the moments after Final Death. The unnaturally aged body had begun its rapid decomposition. As well, the human victim for the soul transference had been suicidal, so it took precious moments to convince the Giovanni's creation that it should continue to exist. Rumour has it that the Vampire victim was actually a neonate of the Giovanni who was caught committing the ultimate crime -- creating a childe with out the permission of Augustus -- and this experiment was sanctioned by Augustus to be used as a warning to the rest of his clan. By the time it was realized that the who le exercise was failing, the first Samedi had been created. Antonio tried to keep his mistake from being found out by the Giovanni elders, but his Necromantic curiosity got the better of him, and he could't bring himself to destroy this new species of Kindred. He locked his Samedi in a vault, in an attempt to starve it into torpor. Somehow, the Samedi managed to escape and attacked the Giovanni. He drained Antonio, the n in a frenzy broke out of his secret chamber and went on a rampage, stopping to find shelter in a mausoleum just before the break of dawn. This Samedi elder became known only as "Gran'daddy" to the Bloodline members in the Americas, but is spoken of in hushed tones among Clan Giovanni as Paulo. He retained the Giovanni's Necromancy discipline. The Bloodline's obvious affinity with death and decay grew into the than atosis discipline, and Obfuscate could have been taught to the Samedi by empathetic Nosferatu. Paulo kept a low profile in the Mediterranean for the better part of 50 years. He was drawn to victims who had not hing left to live for, or who had a fascination with death and decay. Crackpot occultists were also a favourite target of Paulo and his childer, who fancied the mselves the physical embodiment of death incarnate. Not wanting to leave the ir Clanmate's mistake alive, Clan Giovanni began to search in earnest for Gran'daddy and his childer. It was at this time that they left the Mediterranean and went into

=== PAGE 4 === hiding in the Brazilian jungle. The many slave ships crossing the Atlantic at the time, with the ir filthy and overcrowded conditions below decks, made passage very safe for the Samedi. The Nagaraja have also been suggested as the cause of Bloodline Samedi. This is a rumour perpetuated by Clan Giovanni. It is much more believable that the ir kind could have spawned the Zombies, and the Giovanni are more than will ing to do what ever it takes (and costs) to keep the blame shifted from the ir family. Choosing a Childe The selection for a Samedi's childe is careful and well thought out. While the se creatures can be coarse and degenerate, they fully understand the cursed existence of the ir Bloodline, and create only from those that they feel are deserving in the ir desperation. It was thought at one time that they preyed on just the suicidal and persons involved daily with death and dying -- morticians and coroners. not hing could be further from the truth. The mortician and coroner myth is a red herring. It helps stop groups that hunt the Samedi and destroy the m from finding and protecting a Samedi's potential Childe. Suicides are still of ten chosen by the Samedi. Bestowing a death with out dying gives the m perverse pleasure. But a Samedi searching for a truly worthy of fspring will stalk the local practitioners of Voodoo. Sometimes a Samedi will choose a child to embrace. they have several advantages. the ir small stature makes the m excellent spies. the ir will s aren't all that strong, so they can be trained easily. And finally, the pickings are good. the re are many children wandering the streets homeless, depressed and outcast with no prospects for the future. The Samedi that embraces a you th do es so not for self-gratification, but because they see that the child's soul is already dead. The Becoming The changes the newly created Samedi's body undertakes are as painful psychologically as they are physically. Rather than the body ceasing to age at the moment of the embrace, it dies completely and goes through several hours of rapid decomposition. The internal or gans jell and shrink. The flesh becomes very soft and leaks an infectious looking ooze when ever under stress (by vigorous motion or physical contact). The hair becomes brittle and may fall out in clumps. The lips recede from the gums, resulting in a most macabre grin. But nobody generally sticks around the se beings long enough to find out what the joke is. Noses always drop of f, and the eyes sink deep in the hollow sockets. Yes, the eyes. the se are the most shocking feature of all. Samedi of ten appear not to be looking at you when confronting you, and if you ever work up the courage to look the m in the face, you would not ice that the ir eyes seem to have a will of the ir own. The degenerated musculature and nerve endings all ow the m to roll and stare each in the ir own direction. they appear to look at you, through you and over the ir own should er all at the same time. The very elder Samedi (around 200 years of age and at least 7th generation) have gone beyond the soft decomposition stage. the ir flesh has stiffened and dried out, giving the Vampire a very emaciated, leathery appearance. When the se elders feed, the ir skin will stretch out almost smooth -- like a bladder -- for about the first hour following the feeding. === PAGE 5 === As if the ir appearance weren't bad enough, the re's the ever-present smell. This bloodline is caught in an eternal state of suspended rapid decay. The stench of the grave permeates any room they enter, and hangs in the air where ver they pass. You really don't want to get one wet. The exception to this rule is elder Samedi of 6th Generation or older. The more the flesh dries, the less material the re is to rot and smell. Modes of Dress A Samedi's preference for clothing will generally fall into two or three categories. Many prefer fine clothing. This may seem bizarre, but the Kindred justify the ir taste. they equate fine clothes with corpses decked out for burial. Being that many live in or near graveyards, especially those with mausoleums, the Samedi frequently see the deceased and the ir mourners dressed in Sunday best. the se Samedi also habitually feed on mourners visiting the grave sites. Another popular mode of dress is medical clothing. The Samedi bloodline is still drawn by the ir fascination with death, and many frequent for ethics labs and hospital emergency rooms. The feeding here is also abundant, as they can grab blood bags and or derbies with equal ease. Occasionally a Samedi will track a potential childe to Emergency, especially if he has seen (or caused) the victim's accident and the victim is near death. the se Kindred of ten carry the ir belongings around in a modified body bag. The final clothing preference is more a matter of honor -- clothing from the grave. When two Samedi meet, one of the topics of conversation will be the history of a special piece of clothing or jewelry that the bearer has robbed from a grave. The more the owner knows about the history of the piece -- be it an heirloom brooch, a Vietnam war veteran's do g tags or a piece of lace from a 200 year old shawl (maybe from the Samedi's own ancestor), the more prestige she can gain in the Bloodline's eyes. Many amazing and almost believable histories can be heard about various items carried by the Samedi at the Rio can do mble each year. what ever the Samedi wears, it gives the feeling of wear and decay. If he puts on a brand new suit, with in a half hour it is rumpled and musty. If he must attend a Prince's court, he will cover as much of his body as possible with a high-collared or hooded cloak, and will sit quietly in the shadows until called upon. After the audience, he will remove himself from the activity as quickly and quietly as possible. Making a Living Despite -- or perhaps because of -- the disadvantage of the ir appearance, the Samedi are even better information brokers than the Nosferatu. they have infinite patience and once sent on a mission, they will carry on do gladly until its completion. they are very shrewd and wise, seeming to have a knack for finding out the deepest, darkest secrets hidden in a city, a political system or a soul. the re is a very basic reason for the ir working so hard to build a reputation as an indisposable resource -- survival. the ir existence of fends enough elders that, should the Samedi cease to be such invaluable informants, they would be bloodhunted and destroyed with out question. As long as they hold enough dirt on the other clans, they'll be left alone. The bloodline also spawns some very competent assassins, although they don't have the stoic

=== PAGE 6 === finesse of the Assamites. A Samedi is just as likely to take out her victim with an explosive charge as with the clean and quiet stake through the heart. the ir innate Voodoo talents make the m excellent bodyguards. As well as the repulsion of the ir physical presence, the bloodline can work powerful gases, curses and scryings to protect who mever they are paid to keep alive. Some Samedi have a great affinity for technology, and the ir have ns of ten boast the best in electronic surveillance equipment, wiretaps, disguise kits for body and voice, computer systems and lots of spare parts. the ir resources may appear low, but that's only because banking and investing is difficult. they can't just walk into a bank and open an account. they usually have significant stores of cash or other valuables, received as payment for the ir various assignments. In The Company of Others If a Samedi must make contact with other Vampires, it will be on her terms. Favourite meeting places are graveyards, abandoned buildings and dark all eys, especially around dumpsters. If a meeting must be made in public, the Samedi will go to a shelter for the homeless, where his smell will be less discernible from the rest. Samedi rarely use ghouls. The nature of the ir blood means that anyone who drinks of it will take on the decrepit nature and smell of the Kindred. This generally defeats the purpose that ghouls are created for -- to make contact with the human world for the Vampire. If a Samedi craves human contact, he may dress in rags and huddle over a heat grate with the local winos, or comb the trash bins with a bag lady for a couple hours. If the Samedi wants more permanent companionship, she will likely embrace a feral cat or stray do g. Chapter Two: Getting Social -- Samedi Culture Just try to have fun, Raise hell and the n some. I'm a dirt-talking', beer drinking', Woman chasing' minister's son. -- Alice Cooper, Alice Cooper Goes to Hell The Samedi are completely solitary and unstructured -- at least that's what they want everybody else to believe. It is true that the re will be only one Samedi per major city center (unless the re is a childe in training). how ever, many of the Samedi keep in regular communications with each other. It all goes back to the ir survival the or y -- the more people who know the secrets, the harder it is to bury the secrets. It is rare for the se Kindred to meet in groups because the smell would soon attract unwanted attention in developed are as. the re is an exception to this rule. Once a year many of the bloodline gather in the jungles outside Rio de Janeiro for the ir Voodoo can do mble*. The retreat is generally around Mardi Gras season, when the humans' attention is focused on revels in the city. It is likely that smaller groups of Samedi have gotten together before, to celebrate the particular feast day of the ir spirit guide of choice, but this is the one time of year when all get together and hold the ir own festival. === PAGE 7 === The revels don't last more than 3 or 4 days maximum. This is due partially to the difficulty in keeping a fresh blood supply on hand. As well, many of the Samedi have the affliction Taint of Corruption. The "Rio can do mble" is generally held in an is olated grotto deep in the rainforest. At the conclusion of the event, a 600 square yard patch of blackened, dead undergrowth will have developed, which if seen from the air could draw unwanted visitors. As soon as possible, the host Samedi will set fire to the blighted are a, making it look like a slash-and-burn. Certain experienced Vampire hunters know enough lore to search out the se sites of decay. Needless to say, the Garou sense the touch of the Wyrm greatly in the se blighted are as. A group of about four Samedi would have been chosen at last year's festivities as this year's hosts. they will attend the site a couple of weeks before the gathering of the Bloodline. With the help of ghouls and locals ensorcelled into believing they are serving the ir Voodoo deities, they make this season's preparations. The chosen site must have a stream running through it. A structure will be erected to precise specifications as a focus for the activities. It will have a large room for dancers and drummers, at least 60 square feet in size. A path leads directly from the front do or to the dance floor. Benches (or logs to sit on) are placed on either side of the room for seating. Men and women are seated on opposite sides of the can do mble site. the re should be a window in each of the side walls, and another do or to the outdoors leading of f the dance floor. The windows and do or s are necessary to facilitate the entrance and exit of called spirits. Behind the dance floor are a, opposite the front entrance, will be a series of small rooms with white-painted walls. the se rooms are used by the can do mble Iya and her assistance to prepare the mselves for the for malities. Of primary importance is the security of the are a. Absolutely no one, not even the guests, will know the exact location of the site, except the preparation team. The team knows the date that everything must be in place. Just 24 hours before, when the Bloodline members begin to arrive in Brazil, do they provide directions via the ir advanced information systems. Some methods include: a phone number for somewhere in Rio, with an encoded message giving directions on an answering machine when it picks up; an address for a secure warehouse where containers with Samedi in the m can be dropped of f, the n transported to the meeting site; and the renting of the local drug cartel's runway where Samedi crates can be parachute-dropped by plane and picked up later. The can do mble is presided over by the can do mble Iya (Queen). She is generally an Elder Samedi or she is chosen by group assent for some exceptional service she has provided for, or honor she has brought to Bloodline Samedi. Not all of the North American Samedi can make it to the Rio can do mble every year. they hold the ir own event in the bayous of Louisiana. It is timed, like the Rio event, to coincide with the New or leans Mardi Gras. It is less likely that the gathering will be bothered by hunters in Louisiana, but more likely that they will have problems with the Garou and Mokole. * can do mble: Communal dance, used interchangeably as the name of the event, the revels the mselves and the location of the revels. What the Samedi Think Of... Brujah: they think they're the tough guys, but they're all fight and no sense. Sure, hanging' in a gang decreases the odds of somebody hitting you, but it do esn't leave much space for free thinking. But the n, the toughies don't think much at all before acting, do they? === PAGE 8 === they're meaner, tougher and uglier than anything else I've ever come across. But the worst part of the m is that they're loners. don't trust nobody that won't run with the pack, that's what I sez. -- but ch O'do yle, Brujah anarch leader (Detroit, Michigan) Gangrel: they roam the wide open spaces and aren't at all comfortable with city ways. Too much like the Puppies for me. Leave the vegetarians to the mselves. If you must deal with the ir kind, use 'em the n lose 'em. they don't bother us, we don't bother the m. -- Logan, Gangrel elder (Tucson, Arizona) Tremere: they don't like the Giovanni at all. We gotta respect the m for that. don't try to con the se guys. the ir elders have for gotten more that most clans will ever know. Get cash up front if you deal with the m, the n get the job do ne right. they don't like mistakes, but they seem to recognize the value of a good informant. An interesting creation, indeed. We shall now delve deeper into the ir creation and examine the ir makeup. Scalpel, please. -- Magister Emma Dallan, is tanbul Chantry Ventrue: Stuffed shirt aristocrats. the ir backstabbing little empires are crumbling all around the m, and we make a mint telling the Princes how much worse the ir opponents are do ing than they are. And vice verse. Encourage the ir actions. the ir desire to know more than the ir brethren keeps our kind in business. Always lots of good dirt to trade. the ir appearance of fends our proceedings, but the ir talents afford the m some measure of respectability. Get what you can from the m, but be careful. they're shrewd dealers, and seldom go away with less than they started with. -- Armenio, Prince of Martinique Malkavians: the se numbers know more than they give the mselves credit for. If they ever get the ir act together, we could all be in big trouble. But the ir inbred neuroses, psychoses and phobias give us more than enough fuel to add to the ir fire of confusion. When they go of f on a tangent, leave 'em the re and walk away. Everybody's beautifuuuul, in the ir own waylay.... -- Kyle Scheaffer, Chicago Malkavian Toreador: Ain't they just the sweetest than gs? If you take the se pansies seriously, the n you deserve to have you r ash pile dissolved in a bucket of water like Freshie. Airheads and do lts right do wn to the last one. Prank 'em hard and of ten. Make the ir little heads reel in disgust. We're what unlike is all about. they're just faking it. Those, those THINGS?? (shudder). How anything like that could be all owed to exist truly of fends my sensibility. with out wanting to sound melodramatic -- 'of f with the ir heads!' I say. -- Rosalind Chisholm, Toreador elder (Augusta, Georgia) Nosferatu: Good buddies. We get along with the se fellas real well. Help watch the ir backs, and they'll get you through almost any jam. don't hesitate to ask for the ir aid, and be eager to reciprocate. Just don't give away any secrets. they like to think they're at the top of the "I know

=== PAGE 9 === something you don't know" heap. As long as we help perpetuate the myth, the heat's not on us. Trust the m with you r lives, and give the m the respect they deserve. the se wretches can not help what they've become. the re's an old Clan saying: A Nosferatu with a Samedi bodyguard will live for five centuries. -- "Nightcrawler", Nosferatu information broker Giovanni: Well, what can we say about our favourite for eign family? How about avoid 'em, crush 'em, maim and destroy 'em? Not physically, of course. the ir dark arts far outshine anything we could throw at 'em. Hit the m where they really hurt -- in the corporate pocketbook. the n run like Hell and don't look back. Ever. they're an embarrassment that we must eliminate. Every moment they exist is a thorn in our family's side. -- Madeleine "The Dagger", Giovanni enforcer Ravnos: Great sense of humor and useful as informants. Love that ability to create weapons, items, and almost anything else out of thin air. And get this -- they can make you believe it! Treat the m with the respect due any good informant. And bring lots of shiny things for trade. I'd sure like to know how they can hide so much junk on the ir person. they're as good at it as we are. the n again, maybe I would't like to know... -- Pietro, Prince of Sofia Camarilla: The pay's good, and the work's the re if you want it. Somebody in this gang's always wanting to be saved from somebody they ticked of f, or they're looking for info to make a corporate raid or somesuch. Protection and information money flows freely with this bunch. And they're relatively stable to boot. Work it while you can. the ir grotesque existence may seem a violation of the Masquerade, but they seem to have a code of honor. I'd rather have the m with us than against us. -- Queen Anne, Prince of London Sabbat: Can use the se boys for income, especially if you've got a juicy tidbit about a Camarilla have n they want to raid. But, don't throw out the baby with the bathwater. This bunch is too fractured to ever get very far in the takeover biz. The Camarilla's income is valuable and plentiful. The Sabbat's best use is to scare a Camarilla Prince into thinking his unlike's in danger from the m. the n charge big money to keep him safe. they scare the bejeebers out of most Kindred they meet. I say make nice with 'em. You don't want to think about the alternative. -- Mike "the Snake" Mancuso, Sabbat bishop Inconnu: Tolerable lot. Keep to the mselves for the most part, and I can respect that. Someday I might even try to talk to one, see what they are all about. Someday when I no longer want to exist, that is... My research has not revealed much, but what I have learned frightens me. I fear that they are not just a subspecies of the Nosferatu or Giovanni, but an unwholesome amalgamation of all that is most despicable in the undead. === PAGE 10 === -- do ninny, sixth-generation Monitor of Genoa Mages: Just stay away from this bunch. they know too much. The most dangerous individuals you will ever come across. Deal with a Mage only through an intermediary. Keep you r distance, that's the only way to survive an encounter with one. We have observed the ir machinations many times. We have even used the m as sources of information. they, like all Kindred, have the ir place and use. -- Cornelius De Vires, or der of Hermes Tradition If ever I saw something more deserving of a Good Death, it was a Samedi. -- Ethan Moore, Euthanatos Tradition Abominations. The Sleepers will be safer when they are re-buried, permanently. -- Analyst 10010011, New World or der Convention, Technocracy. Wheeeeee!!!!! they are so cool!!! -- X-Ray, Marauder It is good to see that others are will ing to embrace the darkness with in and show it to the world. -- Heinrich, Nephandi Wraiths: The spooks make good slaves, if you can catch and hold one. they can't do much to us, and many tend to have a bad attitude, but if you can call the right one up, it can provide valuable information. Use the m for what ever you can. the ir time's up anyway. they think they know about the dead, but the ir heavy-handed ways of fend us. If we are summoned, we answer. If we don't we'll be wrenched violently from the Shroud. Better we meet the m on our terms. -- and reas, died 55 BC, through Madame Mia, Spirit Medium Changelings: Not all of the m are annoyingly cute or pretentious. they seem to have a dark and light side, sort of like that Star Wars movie. For us, if we stick to the darker Kith, we're OK. Especially like the ones called Sluagh. they're as sneaky as a Nosferatu. they like the information game just as much as we do. The Redcaps are a little too rambunctious. If they'd curb the ir appetite they'd be a more stable lot. the ir banality rivals only the Dauntain. the ir presence is painful to us. they can damage the Glamour in a freehold just by passing with in a block of it. - Lady Valeria of House Fiona Garou: Puppies. Furballs. Hack, hack, choke. the ir attitude is almost as ugly as the ir appearance. they seem to hate our kind even more that you r average Kindred. We've lost several of the Bloodline to Garou attacks. Avoid at all costs. the se...Wyrm things should all be destroyed. By claw, fang, Klaive and the Will of Gaia, it shall be do ne. - Gunter "Seeks the Prey" Schwager, Get of Fenris Ahroun Ratkin: they're good informants, and tend to hang out in our kind of territory. We've tried to get

=== PAGE 11 === to know the ir kind better, set up some kind of liaison, but they don't seem to want to hang around us for long. they hang on our turf, and we cross paths occasionally. Can respect the ir attempts to improve the ir lot in unlike, but the taint of Wyrm follows the m everywhere. -- Michael "Mazewalker" Smith, Ratkin Shadow Seer Mokole: don't piss one of f. The cross can call a beam of daylight do wn. Sun you r buns real good. they really have a problem with us taking over the swamps in the bayous come Mardi Gras time. Something about a Wyrm thing. Still, it's almost worth the effort to take one on, especially if you need a new pair of 'gator skin boots. If you find one of the se Wyrm beasts invading our swamps, kill it, behead it and utterly destroy the body. they have no respect for the natural or der. - Jean-Paul "Lightbringer" Madisson, One of the Shadowless Other Voodoo Sects The Serpents of the Light and Followers of Set also follow the paths of Voodoo and Voudoun. The majority of the Serpents and Setites, how ever, practice the dark arts. The Samedi come under heavy competition from the Setites in particular. The Haitian region of the Caribbean has for all intents and purposes fallen under the power of the Exus, through the machinations of the Followers of Set. Louisiana and environs, in particular New or leans, is hotly contested between the Samedi and the Setites. For now, the Samedi are holding the ir own, mainly due to the strength of the annual Rio can do mble. It is to the Setites' advantage to perpetuate the myths about the evils of modern-day voodoo. The more bad press they can throw at the Samedi's activities the better. Many of the Camarilla clans still adhere to the mortal idea than anything voodoo is intrinsically evil. when ever an atrocity can be traced back to voodoo, the fingers will point first at the Samedi. Truth is, it is highly unlikely that a Samedi would want to draw attention to herself. Such an event would be looked upon in the bloodline as severely as a breach of the Masquerade. Chapter Three: Unique to the Bloodline One thing I miss, Is Cold Ethyl and her skeleton kiss. -- Alice Cooper, Cold Ethyl New Bloodline Merits and Flaws Brittle bones (2 pt. flaw)

=== PAGE 12 === you r bones behave like you have advanced Osteoporosis. Add one to you r target number for Soak rolls. This is not as serious as the Sons of Samuel Flaw (See Sons of Samuel Flaw Vampiric Bone Disease) Truly Disgusting (1 pt. flaw) You are so horrible that few can stand being around you at all. Others must make a will power roll (diff 6 for Nosferatu, 7 for all others, 9 for Toreador) to remain in you r presence. Rotting flesh (3 pt. flaw) Bits and pieces of you fall of f easily. This can be a great disadvantage, possibly leaving evidence after combat. Spirit Guide (1 pt. merit) A benign spirit has been watching over you since you r embrace. You get one extra dice to resist the casting of a curse on you. Wraith Affinity (2 pt. merit) you r knowledge of death draws friendly spirits to you. A successful Perception + Occult roll (diff 8) will all ow you to communicate with a Wraith for up to one scene. Dislocation (1 pt. merit) Because you r body is in a state of decay, you can squeeze into hard to get at places. not e: Can't take this merit with the Rotting Flesh flaw. You'd leave too many pieces behind. Removable limbs (5 pt. merit) If you spend a point of blood, you can remove an appendage, animate it, and reattach it. ie. you

=== PAGE 13 === could remove a hand, send it across the room to retrieve something and bring it back to you. The appendage must remain in you r line of sight, or you lose it permanently. New Bloodline secondary traits for Samedi International Espionage You have a working knowledge of spy activity in you r homeland And at least one other country. * You can find information in a civil service of fice. ** You have the inside scoop on behind-the-scenes wranglings in the city political scene. *** You have an informant of significant position at the Federal level (either in you r homeland or another country). **** You have a for eign government almost in you r pocket. ***** Bond, James Bond. Specialities: Wire taps, tailing suspects, making contacts, listening devices. Camouflage If anyone needs anything hidden in a hurry, you're the one to do the job. * You might find it if you tripped over it ** You can camouflage vehicles, or make an effective duck blind *** You can hide a cabin from overhead surveillance **** You can keep a camp hidden from satellite view ***** You could hide the New York Philharmonic in a library Specialities: Jungle, Arctic, desert, ocean, vehicles, entrances Voodoo rituals You have studied the arts from the Old Country and can recognize the rites as prescribed by the elders. This is just the knowledge, not the powers. * You recognize some symbols. ** Novice. You can perform a reasonable Tarot card reading. *** You know much of the ins and outs of Umbanda and Quimbanda. **** You have full understanding of the causes and effects of Voudoun. ***** You know exactly what type of voodoo is being practised, and who to send the victim of a

=== PAGE 14 === curse to for answers. Specialities: Curses, cures, tarot cards, potions, rituals, symbols Bartering You never take any deal at face value. Half the fun of getting something is wheeling and dealing for it. * You'll try one or two counter of fers. ** You'll play along as long as you r customer isn't too shrewd. *** You rarely get the poorer part of a deal. you r information sells at good rates. **** You'd put an auctioneer to shame. ***** A farmer would buy his own manure back from you at $50 a pound. Specialities: Auctioneering, stock trading, fast talk, evaluation Appraisal You have a talent for knowing the value of things. This could be anything from a piece of antique jewelry to an Old Masters painting. You can spot a for gery. * You're still learning the art. You can give ballpark figures for evaluations. ** You can pick out glass from real precious stones. you r margin of error on evaluations is 20%. *** You can tell the real thing from a fake on close examination. you r margin for error on evaluations is 15% **** You can pick out a fake at a glance. you r margin for error is 5-10% ***** You can spot a Da Vinci in a garage sale. You almost never err on at item's value. Specialities: estate jewelry, antique furniture, art, comic books, stamps. Poison Craft Any assassin is only as good as his arsenal. you rs includes all manner of fast acting, slow and painful and untraceable poisons. * You can administer arsenic in tea. ** You can make curare blow darts. *** You understand how to make and use contact poisons. **** You can make and use poisons that will target certain types ie. only Garou, only women. ***** You can make poisons that will kill a Kindred in minutes. === PAGE 15 === Specialities: curare, arsenic, airborne poisons, poisonous plant identification. Incendiary Devices You have a grasp of how to make and use the things that go Boom! in the night. Specialities: Dynamite, thrown devices, electronic devices, homemade explosives, timers, defusing. New Discipline Voodoun Samedi Sub-Group: The Sons of Samuel not e: This material is an expansion and revision of the or iginal Sons of Samuel by Paul Michael Graham. A Letter to the Tremere Inner Council from Marcus Cole, Tremere Elder, Baton Rouge Most respected Circle: Very recently a bloodline in its infancy has been discovered. The Samedi refer to it as the "Sons of Samuel," but they call the mselves the "Sons of Sam." The earliest records we have of the se beings seems to point to the ir creation in the Louisiana or Mississippi State region in 1992. We have traced the bloodline's beginnings to a Samedi named Dr. Samuel Stankiewicz. Dr. Sam was a particularly wretched example of this bloodline's foulness. He expressed the Nosferatu characteristics of commanding a swarm of flies that constantly buzzed about his person, as well as carrying many large maggots, bloated with the Kindred's own blood. This repulsive creature was bestowed with a great intelligence. As far as we can trace, he had no for mal medical training, rather he practised the Samedi disciplines of than atosis and Necromancy, all to aid his intense study of all aspects of death and dying. He was self-taught, and fancied himself a "Mad do ctor," so to speak. He practised his art very much unnoticed by our kind, until one day Dr. Samuel discovered a mixture of medicine and Necromancy. After his experimentation on, and destruction of several mortals and Kindred, he stumbled on something he has dubbed "Necrotomy." We are still attempting to delve into the particulars of this new Discipline. It appears that, now that Dr. Samuel has made this discovery, he has begun to produce progeny of his own. All of the m have

=== PAGE 16 === the foul discipline Necrotomy. the se progeny seem to be a separate bloodline related to, but not exactly mimicking the Samedi. they have been calling the mselves "The Sons of Samuel," or "Sons of Sam." Although still fully Samedi, Dr. Samuel Stankiewicz has assumed the title as one of the bloodline, and is currently its leader. At this time the re seems to be only a handful of his progeny that exist, but the "Good do ctor" is seeing to the creation of more childer. I and the rest of my chantry will continue to monitor the situation. We have not yet discovered how the rest of the Samedi bloodline feel about Dr. Samuel's activities, or for that matter, if they even know or care. One thing we are monitoring closely is the degree of madness in the progeny. If they show any tendencies that will blatantly breach the Masquerade, they must all be bloodhunted. I would go so far to suggest that Dr. Samuel Stankiewicz be labelled an Anathema, and added to the Red List. Clan Tremere could of fer the Trophy, or possibly the Nosferatu could be convinced to of fer the reward. In you r kindest regards, I respectfully remain, Marcus Cole, Baton Rouge Chantry Quote "We're barrack! -- Gremlins II, The New Batch Nickname Quacks Appearance Born from foulness both mental and physical, the Sons of Samuel share the horrible countenance of the ir progenitor. The one advantage in being partially removed from the Samedi is that they don't have the rotting flesh stench associated with that bloodline. Rather, being that they are medically-bent, the scent of for maldehyde, ether and other hospital smells waft around the Sons of Samuel where ver they go. The Sons make extensive use of masks and prostheses to hide the ir foul visages. Most of the m prefer dress associated with the medical profession. have ns

=== PAGE 17 === Most members of the Sons live in or near are as where they have access to medical facilities. This could be anything from a 24-hour free clinic to a major public hospital. In any case, most own modest homes (with the obligatory secret laboratory on the premises). Some even practise right out of the ir have ns. This could be either New Age healing or an attempt at legitimate medical practises. Background Nearly all Samites have at least minimal medical or mortuary training. For a time, all of the bloodline had such professions, but some of the newer members (in the last year) have come from other backgrounds. An edict has come do wn from Dr. Samuel himself, insisting that Samites shun anyone not involved in medicine or mortuary work when seeking progeny. how ever, this request can not be enforced. Character creation Primary Attributes for Samites are Mental and Knowledge skills. Additionally, a rating of at least one pip in Medicine is highly recommended. Any Samite character with no Medicine pips will be considered a rogue of the bloodline, and may be shunned and treated as an outcast by the Samites. Natures and Demeanors vary amongst the bloodline, how ever Deviants and Caregivers are the most common. Common Backgrounds include Resources and Retainers. Clan Disciplines for title, Necrotomy, than atosis Weaknesses Although possessing the discipline of for title, Samites suffer from a for m of vampiric osteoporosis that makes the ir bones very brittle. they can use Stamina and for title to soak as per normal. how ever, a wound that can not be absorbed will be a harder hit. As a result, all wound penalties that normal Kindred suffer are moved up one on the Health Track. the refore a Samite suffers the following dice penalties to injury: Bruised -1, Hurt -1, Injured -2, Wounded -2, Mauled -5, Crippled -5, Incapacitated. Furthermore, because this Bloodline is in its infancy, characters must start at 12th or 13th generation. or ganisation

=== PAGE 18 === Samites are generally wrapped up in the ir personal affairs and do not meet of ten. Occasionally they come together to discuss items of great importance to the ir bloodline, or to show of f the ir newest projects. The Bloodline do es not take part in Samedi activities such as the Rio or New or leans can do miles. Dr. Samuel Stankiewicz has disassociated himself from his brethren, and his progeny have followed suit. Gaining Bloodline Prestige Only through practice and experimentation in one's art can a Son of Samuel expect to gain Bloodline prestige. Developing one's Disciplines can also bring about prestige. Stereotypes The Camarilla: Very few of the se kindred even know we exist, but the ones who do, stay away. the n again, we aren't looking to win any popularity contests. -- John "Jekyll" Kyle, or thopaedic Surgeon I wasn't sure what they were until I found out who the ir creator was. don't let the m fool you; they are just as foul as Samuel. -- Timothy, Nosferatu informant, Chicago The Sabbat: Camarilla, Sabbat, what's the difference? -- Ellen Jones, RNA The what? I think you've been talking to the Malkavians again. -- do novan, Sabbat Priscus, New York City The Samedi: "Poor, stinky, pathetic things. than k Samuel for proving we're the next step in the ir evolution. they had nowhere to go but up. -- Michael Brain, Podiatrist What the Hell did Sammy Boy think he was do ing? Something stinks, and it's not my gangrenous left foot. Watch the se half-breeds for a while longer, just so we can be sure we know what we're dealing with when we need to eliminate the m. -- Annabella St. Martin, 9th generation Samedi spirit medium. Sons of Samuel Endowments The following list of endowments are special rules, merits and flaws that a Son of Samuel character may use. Paths: Sons of Sam may purchase the Path of Biothaumaturgic Experimentation with out the need to learn Thaumaturgy itself. This path

=== PAGE 19 === comes naturally to Sons of Samuel and may be bought at normal Path cost. how ever, a couple of restrictions apply. The character must first have three pips in Necrotomy and three pips in Medicine, and they must be taught the Path, preferably by another Son of Samuel. Merits and Flaws While the se Merits and Flaws have been created for use with the Sons of Samuel bloodline, they may be used by other Kindred with permission of the Storyteller. Regenerative Blood (6 pt Merit): This merit is extremely powerful in the hands of a vampire, and should be all owed only with the permission of the Storyteller. Kindred possessing this merit have blood that is highly regenerative and can be used to heal wounds at twice the normal rate. For example, at the expenditure of one point of blood, the character would heal two wound levels. Any excess healing would be lost, nor would it accumulate. Additionally, this ability may be used to heal aggravated wounds. To do this, the character would spend the normal 5 points of blood per day, but would heal two aggravated wounds. Medically Inclined (3 pt Merit): Whether or not you have gone to medical school, you have a knack for medicine and its application. Characters who are Medically Inclined may discard a single "one" any time the Medicine Knowledge is rolled. Additionally you know a great deal about the proper care needed to nurse a mortal that has been fed of f back to health. You gain a -2 bonus to the target number when treating such a person. Medical Ties (3 pt Merit): You actually practise(d) medicine or know someone in the medical field either before or after you were Embraced. In any case, you have gained influence in the medical community and can receive large sums of blood, gain autopsy records, and the other perks that go with the profession (Storyteller's discretion). don't abuse this merit. The more of ten you use you r influence, the less effective it will be. Medical Facility (2 to 6 pt Merit): You own a part or are the head of a local medical facility. The magnitude of this facility can range from a small private practice or pharmacy (2 - 4 pts) to a blood bank (5 pts) or General Hospital (6 pts). The actual size and value of the facility, and point cost must be agreed upon by both the player and Storyteller. Controlled Blood Flow (8 pt Merit): Kindred with this merit have a particular ability to control the ir blood flow throughout the ir body when they sleep. This means that the Kindred no longer needs to spend a point of blood per day to maintain himself while he sleeps. It also prevents the level two Thaumaturgical power Blood Rage. The Kindred being affected by Blood Rage has to spend a point of blood per round to negate the effect of Blood Rage. === PAGE 20 === Vampiric Bone Disease (3 pt Flaw): You possess a rare for m of bone disease that makes you r bones more fragile than most. As a result, you possess the identical Flaw as the Sons of Sam. not e: Sons of Sam can not take this as a Flaw. Supernatural Signature (2 pt Flaw): the re is something about you that tends to separate you as supernatural from mortals -- even more so than the typical Kindred. As a result, anyone attempting to detect you r presence either as a Vampire, or a supernatural creature, gains a -1 bonus to the ir difficulty to do so. Unlike the Flaw Eerie Presence, you do not make people uncomfortable when around the m. You are merely more susceptible to being discovered when supernaturals are being searched for. Samedi Quirks and Secrets Giant. No eyes. -- Gnorm, A Gnome Named Gnorm Bloodline Samedi has developed very close ties with Voodoo practises, but not so much the dark Haitian rites. The income and feeding from Spiritism-style Voodoo is much better. they practise the Brazilian style of Voodoo, a strange amalgam of Voodoo, Christianity and Spiritism. It is divided into dark (Quimbanda) and lighter (Umbanda) rituals. Many humans also adhere to the se practises, with the larger cities being centers for Spiritism and the smaller communities in North-eastern Brazil focusing on Umbanda. when ever two or more Samedi get together to practise Voodoo rituals, it is called a can do mble. The term is attached to all group Voodoo events from a séance with 2 to 6 individuals to the Rio can do mble at which anywhere up to 40 or 50 Samedi will attend. Aside from the major can do miles at Mardi Gras time in Rio and New or leans, different Samedi will participate in can do miles for special celebrations. The leader of the celebration is female. She goes by the title Iyu (queen). The Iyu for an Umbanda event will be dressed in flowing white cotton clothing, and be adorned with fetishes, beads and ribbons. The Iyu uses a new outfit everytime she hosts a can do mble event. Humans are welcome to attend a can do mble, and many do. the re are many practitioners of and believers in Voodoo all over the world. The Samedi's inherent smell is somewhat masked in the can do mble dance hall by the burning of much incense. This also helps mesmerize the humans, so if they see anything strange, they can chalk it up to a "religious experience." The Samedi of ten use the se humans as a herd for feeding. they also scout the congregation for potential progeny. The Iyu gets first choice when picking progeny. Other Samedi can only create a childe with her permission. A female Samedi that wants to become an Iyu has a long path to tread. === PAGE 21 === Not all female Samedi are chosen to be an Iyu. The Samedi must start out as a novice, apprenticing with an Iyu will ing to train her. The can did ate must first prove her devotion to the spirit guide of her sponsor. the n she must study and participate in all can do miles her Iyu or ders her to. She will be little more than a slave to her Iyu for 20 to 25 years. She must know all the rituals, incantations and drumbeats for the dancing. She will dress in the color of her sponsor's spirit guide, as only the Iyu herself may wear white. Unless an or damned Iyu breaks of f and starts a Voodoo circle in another community, the novice must wait until the present Iyu dies the Final Death, and even the n she can not be sure the title will be hers, for of ten the Iyu will leave a testament behind, naming another novice as her successor. The fight upwards is slow and arduous, and only the strongest and most dedicated ever make it. Once they do achieve Iyu status, they garner (and deserve) the greatest respect from the Bloodline. When one of the se powerful Kindred dies, the entire bloodline mourns the loss. Part of the Rio and New or leans can do mble is set aside to remember any Iyu who may have been lost since last year's event. they beat drums slowly and chant around an empty coffin in the center of the can do mble dance floor. A grave is dug nearby, and the casket is carried seven times around the hole and raised and lowered three times before it is interred. The mourners the n return to the can do mble where the Iyu's will is read, naming her successor. The successor is the n welcomed with raucous chanting, dancing and drum beating. The up-and-coming novice will be subjected to fasts, rituals and bloodsacrifices reminiscent of ancient African rites. She must learn herbalism and the making of potions. If she survives the se trials, she is ready for her initiation. The Samedi initiation ceremony of a novice Iyu is not for the faint of heart. It is attended by both males and females. To the beat of a drum, the novice is led by an aide into the middle of the can do mble dance floor. Her eyes remain closed through the entire ceremony. She will be dressed in the colors of her Iyu's guide. First, the novice's hair is torn out of her scalp in handfuls by her Iyu. Considering the state of a Samedi's physical being, of ten chunks of scalp come out as well. the n, three buckets of blood are dumped over the novice's head -- one animal, one human and one Vampire. The vampire blood would have been gathered as voluntary do nations from the attending audience, as they entered the can do mble building. The novice remains standing immobile for up to an hour, while everyone else chants, beats drums and dances around her. the n the Iyu rends chunks of flesh from the novice's face and arms. The Novice is the n led into a small antechamber in the back of the can do mble hall where she stays in seclusion for 30 days. She is for bidden to speak to or see anyone during this time. She receives minimal blood --

=== PAGE 22 === just enough to prevent frenzy and torpor. At the end of this period of seclusion, the novice is brought back into the can do mble hall for her "name-giving." This is when her Iyu's spirit guide will either accept or reject her. She will be dressed in her Iyu's guide's appropriate color. Drums and chanting will begin, and she will shuffle and dance around the dance floor. If the ceremony is a success, the novice, while in a trance-like state, will begin to shake and convulse uncontrollably. She will the n scream out the name of her Iyu's spirit guide. This means that the guide has decided that this novice is worthy of becoming an Iyu in his/her name some day. Following a successful name-giving, the novice can stay and devote her unlike to her Iyu, in the hopes of being her successor. She can also choose to strike out on her own, seeking a new location to establish an Umbanda center. An unsuccessful name-giving is cause for great shame. The shunned novice will be taken to a secluded are a, staked and left for the morning sun. with out a guide, the student has no reason to continue existing. Final Death is the only way she can save face with the Bloodline. Who they Call On Got a job that needs supernatural assistance? You have to know who to call -- and when. The Samedi believe that all natural and supernatural events are controlled to some degree by the ir spirit guides. Following is a list of the more popular guides, the ir colors, astrological signs and (in some cases) accessories needed to call the m. System: Roll Perception + Occult (diff 8). The number of successes will dictate the accuracy and amount of information gained. A botch means the guide can not be contacted for 24 hours. No successes means the guide will appear but give false or no information (Storyteller's discretion). Summonings should be kept to one question directed at one spirit each 24 hours. Oxala: (Pronounced Ossala) Male spirit -- the most powerful. Followers wear white clothes, a gold ring on the middle left finger, and white beads with three red ones in the set. He will accept novices only during the Rio can do mble (never at the New or leans can do mble). Sign: Leo Yemanja: Female spirit -- controls the oceans and waterways. Followers wear teal blue or aquamarine, and milky blue or yellow beads. She can be called at high tide. She accepts novices only on New Year's Eve. Must have a seashell. Sign: Virgo Ogun: Male spirit -- controls violent acts (melee). Followers wear dark

=== PAGE 23 === green clothes with silver but tons, and a small silver sword on a chain around the neck. Can be called while facing west. Must have a switchblade. Sign: Saggitarius Oxossi: (Pronounced Ossossi) Male spirit -- controls violent acts (firearms). Followers wear rust-brown and carry a miniature replica of a shotgun. Can be called while facing north. Must have gunpowder. Sign: Taurus Xango: (Pronounced Zango) Male spirit -- controls knowledge. Followers wear mauve or light blue, and carry a small scroll tied with baby blue ribbon. Is called to remove curses bestowed by Exu of the Closed Paths. Called while facing east. Must have a novel. Sign: Libra Oxun: (Pronounced Ossun) Female spirit -- controls acts of secrecy. Followers wear navy blue, and three small silver arrows on a charm bracelet charm. Can be called while in the shadows. Must have a magnifying glass. Sign: Pisces Omulu: Male spirit -- controls bodily functions and decay. Followers wear swampy greens and browns, and either carry a piece of driftwood or use a gnarled wooden walking stick. Can be called on grass, lawn or field. Must have a natural piece of a tree (ie. a stick). Sign: can cer In addition to the above, the re are a couple of lesser Voodoo spirits that can be called on. The Old Black Slave is a male Negro slave. You must have a cigar to call him. Jurema is a female Amend. You must have six bird feathers to call her. the se spirits can both be called on to answer questions. The questioner should find a quiet place and meditate. Rolls are the same as for the above spirit guides. A Samedi will almost never wear pure black or pure red. the se are Quimbanda colors and would easily identify a "black arts" follower to other Samedi. Another definite sign of Quimbanda is a pair of black can dles tied with two red and two black ribbons. More on Quimbanda The Samedi practitioners of Quimbanda are either very old or very brave. Quimbanda Voodoo is unpredictable at best. The spirits all go by the prefix Exu. Exu Marabo: Female. Speaks French only. Specialises in the cure and cause of disease. A corpse must be present. Must be called in a mortuary. Exu Mangueira: Male. Speaks French only. Can cure heart problems or cause heart attacks. Can cause bloodflow problems in Kindred. Must be called in a hospital. Must have a glass of the strongest proof alcohol you can get, and light three white can dles. === PAGE 24 === Exu of the Closed Paths: Female. Causes extreme bad luck. Luck can only be changed with the assistance of an Umbanda Iyu or a novice who can call Xango. Must have chalk and a pot of black ink present. Must be called in a school. Exu Skull: Male. Can help conquer an enemy. A tombstone at least 50 years old must be present. Must be called upon in a graveyard. Exu of Hot Ashes: Male. Causes or cures alcoholism or drug addiction (including Kindred addicted to addicts). Must have a full bottle of liquor or syringe present (needle not broken). Must be called in flame (ie. lit fireplace, can dle, burning piece of paper). Exu of the Pitchforks: Female. Makes or breaks relationships (business and personal). Must have a picture of the intended victim(s) present. Must light three black can dles to call her. It is rumored that the re are certain symbols that must be drawn to ensure that the calling of the Exus is heard, and that the request is answered. As the Quimbanda sect is extremely secretive, no one, not even the Umbanda Iyus, have been able to find a symbol left intact. Whether they are Umbanda or Quimbanda, the spirits' talents are not to be abused. they are fully capable of seeking revenge on a questioner who they feel did not pay the proper respects, or used the ir knowledge frivolously or for the wrong reasons. And who's to say what the se beings consider right and wrong? they will use the ir particular talents to the ir best advantage. For example, if a Samedi novice meets with Yemanja's disapproval, her have n may be flooded. Exu of the Pitchforks may cause a business deal to go bad, or even get a bloodhound called on the victim. The Place of Men While they can not be Iyus, male Samedi occupy positions equally as powerful in the bloodline. After 20 to 30 years of study and attendance at can do mble, the Samedi male can attempt to call do wn his own spirit guide. This will not be one of the guides mentioned in Umbanda or Quimbanda. Rather, it will likely be a non-famous person with a particular talent. It may be for medicine, education, espionage, warfare, or any other specialty. This spirit guide, when called upon, transfers all its' knowledge into the host. Roll Charisma + Occult (diff 8). The number of successes equals the number of hours the spirit guide will be will ing to assist the Samedi when it is called. A character may choose one of this type of spirit guide once he has achieved four pips in Occult. The guide should be written up, including abilities and background, and approved by the Storyteller. === PAGE 25 === For some reason, healing spirit guides are the most common. A famous case in Brazil is Jose Santiago. Santiago is revered among the local poor kine as being able to cure all physical infirmities. Santiago held a fascination with disease, death and decay as do all Samedi. When the time came to call do wn his spirit guide, he was opened to Dr. Fritz, who enables Santiago to perform "miracle cures" on the local populace. Minor Effects Both male and female Samedi have an inherent ability to affect minor charms. Some examples include: curing a toothache, sobering up a drunk, keeping snakes out of you r have n, preserving you rself from being struck by lightning, winning at cards, making an unwanted visitor go away. The
* requirement is twofold: the character must make a Despacho, and must also make a successful Manipulation + Occult roll (diff 6). The charm and its affect must be OK'd by the Storyteller. *
Despacho: a small leather bag hung from the neck by a thong. Into the bag is placed two or three items to make the charm work ie. different herbs, coloured beads, coins. The Despacho must be worn while the charm is worked. Chapter Four: Archetypes The templates presented here are similar to those in Vampire. The Natures and Demeanors given here are samples only. You can easily alter the se templates to fit you r concept of how you would want to run the character. Some of the se Natures and Demeanors are taken from The Vampire Players Guide. Back-Woodsman Quote: the re's things out the re in the middle of the m woods that'd make a strong man die of fright. Prelude: You were born in the Louisiana bayou region. Mama and Papa raised you and you r 12 siblings as best they could, but the Cajun hicks never got the good jobs. You were always underfed, unhealthy and uneducated. You learned quick that the only way to get along was to do it for you rself. Soon as you could, you grabbed a gun and a hunting knife, and went into the swamps to for age. The trade in 'gator hides was strong, and the swamps were easy to lose the authorities in. You carried on like this for the better part of 10 years, soon gaining the reputation for being the best poacher the Louisiana swamps had ever spawned. === PAGE 26 === One day you happened on a 'gator that was particularly hard to take do wn. It almost seemed to have human intelligence. The ensuing battle left you mortally wounded. It seemed you were going to die right here in the land where you were born. Just the n, as you were gasping you r last, a hideous for m loomed overhead. This thing reminded you of the Legend of Amos Moses -- king of the all igator hunters. you r progenitor said he embraced you to stop you from invading the Mokole's territory and killing any more of the ir kind. the n he disappeared into the swamp, never to be seen again. You did n't know that were-all igators existed, but you sure want to find out more about the m. they will be very worthwhile trophies. You did n't die from you r first encounter with one than ks to you r sire, but is this much better? Concept: You are very private, a loner. You don't want nobody messing around you r territory, and you don't want nobody nosing around in you r business. You have a single contact on the river front that you trade skins with for supplies. You feed of f the swamp creatures, and an occasional lost tourist. Becoming a vampire hasn't really changed you r lifestyle much, except that you seem to be better at stalking you r prey, and hiding from danger. you r driving goal is to catch the granddaddy of all 'gators. You are still searching for more of the se Mokole, but now that you are Kindred you understand that the re's more to the were-creatures than meets the eye. Roleplaying tips: What you don't have in strength you make up for in speed and savvy. the re isn't much you don't know about the swamps and the creatures that live here. Along with poaching, you have been known to hide someone who is running from the law, or from the Camarilla. All for a price, of course. Most of the time you just keep to you rself and wonder what ever happened to you r kinfolk. Equipment: Shotgun, axe, hunting knife, raft, camping gear, can oe, flashlight. can do mble Novice Quote: You have been put under a curse. I can ask Xango to reverse it and open you r paths...for a price. Prelude: You thought you had it made. A slick little for tune telling operation in the French Quarter kept you fed and clothed. Fleecing the tourists was almost criminal, but it was so much fun. Of course, you never believed in any of that supernatural mumbo-jumbo. Spiritism, Voodoo, that was all crap you told the kids to keep the m from wandering of f at night. You'd heard the re were some freaks that redtop://php.indiana.edu/~adashiel/wod/archive/samedi.html 2/20/2002

=== PAGE 27 === enacted hokey rituals in the bayous, but you dismissed it as yet another lure for tourists. You were working late one night. It was near Mardi Gras and business was booming. You were feeling pretty good about you rself. The cards were reading well. You'd just predicted a happy marriage to a handsome lawyer for a slip of a girl who se face -- well, let's just say that if you run across her again, you r embrace would't shock her much. It was almost time to pack it in when a decrepit old woman entered you r booth. She must have been one of those inbred Cajun old-timers, you thought, because she reeked of decay like the swamps outside the city. She took her place opposite you at the table, but instead of asking for a reading, she pulled out a well-worn set of tarot cards and began telling you r for tune. What she had to say was very strange, and somehow believable. she told of another life -- the real live of Voodoo. She mentioned something or someone called Samedi. She gave you the impression that she wanted you for this Samedi sect. You weren't too sure about all this. You dismissed her and ran home quickly as you could. But the next night, just at closing time, she was back. And the next night as well. For reasons you are still not clear on, you agreed to follow this woman to the swamps. The foulness of the embrace left you in shock and pain for some time. The old swamp woman stayed with you, guiding you and teaching you the ways of the Bloodline. You discovered she was an Iyu of Yemanju, and you followed in her footsteps. You passed you r name-giving, and now assist you r Iyu and Yemanju. Concept: You are a can do mble novice, still under the tutelage of you r Iyu. You serve the followers of Voodoo, assist you r Iyu during rituals and study the ways of the Samedi. Every year you accompany you r Iyu to either the Rio or New or leans can do mble. You are confident that when the time comes, you will take over as Iyu of this region. Roleplaying tips: Carry you rself with dignity. After all, you are a priestess in training. Mention the name of you r spirit guide occasionally in conversation. Always remind those that are with you that the Spirits walk among us, and that the re are for ces not to be trifled with. Equipment: New blue dress, different coloured can dles, ribbons, bottle of hard liquor, strings of beads and shells, vials of arsenic and strychnine Crazy Cat Lady Quote: Here kitty, kitty... === PAGE 28 === Prelude: Ever since you can remember, you've been around cats. The first picture ever taken of you still hangs in you r living room. the re you are, three years old, dressed in a pretty pink smock, smiling and holding a tiny black Persian kitten. you r love of animals in general and felines in particular led you to a job at the local SPCA. You devoted many hours to the care and handling of society's unwanted pets. you r soft spot for kitties meant that several of the animals slated for euthanasia ended up as cherished members of you r household. You developed displays on the importance of having you r pet inoculated for rabies, and lectured at schools on pet care. You devoted weekends to manning a booth at shopping malls, handing out literature on spaying or neutering you r pet, and knocked on many do or s fund-raising for the Society. Eventually, you started to join the night patrol. You answered many calls requesting removal of stray do gs and cats from private property. You even were involved in the rescue of several animals from dangerous situations such as fires and car accidents. You even got Fluffy do wn from a huge will ow tree for old Mrs. Mc Tavish over on 4th Street. Occasionally while on patrol alone, you'd get the feeling that someone was watching you. You never saw anything, but at times, it felt like someone was just out of sight in the shadows, keeping an eye on you r business. The feeling manifested itself especially strong one night when you were checking on the warehouse district. You had gotten a report of a mother cat with kittens that had to be removed from a storage unit. the re was little light in the building you were directed to. You entered cautiously, not wanting to terrify the animals. the n you saw it. A gruesome display was illuminated by a moonlit window. A decrepit, skinny figure appeared to be sucking the blood out of a cat! Revulsion quickly turned to fury as you charged in and jumped the cat killer. But this guy was fast -- as fast as a cat it seemed. He had you pinned before you knew what was going on. the n he began a strange chant. From out of nowhere, cats began pouring into the room. the re were cats everywhere, and they all seemed eager for the kill. The last thing you remember before you blacked out was a stench of death and decay, and the hissing and meowing of the cats. You awoke to the realization that things would never be the same. you r progenitor embraced you out of hunger and self-preservation, and he had little time for a pathetic neonate. The only thing you had in common was you r interest in cats. But now, you could blood bind the cats, make the m part of you for ever, like children that will never grow old and never grow up. Concept: You loved cats when you were mortal, and now you've got for ever to look after the m. You live in a small cottage on the outskirts of town, and the place is full of cats. Some of the m are you r ghouls, but many are just in need of food and shelter. You keep to you rself mostly. === PAGE 29 === The cats are you r friends. You talk to the m, and maybe they even understand you sometimes. Any money you make goes into the care and feeding of you r cats. Roleplaying hints: you r cats are you r life. You're always talking to the m, stroking the m and feeding the m. You've developed a cat's lightning reflexes and keen eyesight from living with the m for so long. If you see anyone abusing a cat, you will frenzy. If one of you r cats goes missing, you will search high and low for it, maybe for days or even weeks, depending on whether or not it's a favourite. Equipment: Can opener, lots of catfood, heavy purse, can e. Samite General Practitioner Quote: The swelling should go do wn in a couple of days. In the meantime, take two of the se and call me in the morning. Prelude: you r father was a surgeon, and his father was a country do ctor. It was preordained that the firstborn son would also be in medicine. It took three tries before you were accepted in medical school. The classes were draining, and the work quickly piled up over you r head. Getting three or four hours of sleep per night was a luxury. But still you toiled on. Failing to become a do ctor would be a disgrace to the family. the re can't be an end to the tradition of healers. The stress was getting to be more than you could bear. After failing that last kinetics exam, you even contemplated suicide. the n, a new professor happened on the scene. He took a particular interest in you, always taking time to speak to you on the way out of anatomy class. His of fer to tutor you on you r weak points did n't come a moment too late. You spent many hours in his private of fice, poring over causes, cures, procedures and experiments. Sure, he had a few strange quirks. He only conducted meetings and classes after dark, but he'd stay up until almost dawn to help you with you r problems. His of fice always smelled of for maldehyde and ether, and you could never figure out where it came from. His skin was kind of weird, too. It looked almost like it were stretched too tight, like what ever was underneath it was trying to burst its seams. You really did n't have much time to ponder his uniqueness and besides, he was helping you make the grade. On graduation day, he took you aside and made you an of fer. He said that funding had just been put in place for a new branch of medical research. The work was ready to go, and all he needed was an assistant to help him. You eagerly agreed. It was an opportunity you could't refuse. Little did you know how things would change. === PAGE 30 === Concept: you r unique insight has provided you with many hours of study. You carry on a night practice in a portion of you r have n, treating the usual gamut of human ailments. It pays the bills. Hidden in the basement is you r real love -- a fully functional experimental laboratory. So what if the occasional street punk or hooker goes missing? It keeps you r hobby interesting. You know you're getting close. Just a few more months' work and you're sure you r old professor will teach you about Biothaumaturgic Experimentation. You've got the lab all set up. All you need is the talent. Roleplaying tips: Medicine is you r life. you r introduction to unlike has renewed you r drive. You now have endless amounts of time to learn. Experiments that you used to think were impossible may actually be accomplished. You love to talk to other Samites about new developments in procedures, and to show of f you r latest project. Right now you're concentrating on building better prostheses. Anything to further the cause of the bloodline. Equipment: Lab coat, stethoscope, clipboard, do ctor's black bag, large filing cabinet stuffed with not es. Samite Surgical Nurse Quote: Now just relax. It's only a little pinprick. Prelude: It wasn't easy getting you r degree. You studied hard and spent many long hours poring over lectures, the or ies and previously completed papers. At first, you thought that medical school was the way to go, but half way through pre-med, you decided that working as a surgeon's assistant was you r calling. You graduated with honors and were snapped up by one of the best hospitals in the city. It was a rush, being involved in life and death situations every day. But before long, you r career became just a job. You began to feel that the re was more to life than sterilizing scalpels after the daily hustle and bustle of OR. you r request to switch to the night shift was granted. Maybe the increased activity in Emergency would give you r career new meaning. That's when you not iced a particular surgeon. He has to live in the hospital, you thought, because you never saw him leave the building, not even after his shift. A cloud of the typical hospital smells seemed to follow him where ver he went. He must be a bundle of nerves, too, because he never seemed to have much of an appetite. Funny thing, too, he never seemed to go anywhere with out his OR mask. Actually, he never seemed to go anywhere but Emergency and the OR. Wonder what he looks like? === PAGE 31 === You found out about three months later. It had been a particularly hard night, with several car accidents, a house fire and even a shooting. You were burned out, tired and frustrated. Surely the re had to be something better... That's when you r mysterious surgeon made his move. After you r embrace, he taught you the specialities only a Samite can bring to the medical profession. you r life has new meaning now, and you can help people in new ways -- whether they need it or not. Concept: To assist you r mentor is you r driving goal. His work means everything to you, and you will stop at not hing to further his and you r experiments. you r have n is in a for gotten corner of the hospital laundry room. Feeding is no problem -- the re is blood in great supply both fresh and stored. You still keep up with you r work in the OR. Maybe someday soon you'll be able to acquire a still-breathing victim for the do ctor to work with. Roleplaying tips: You are a professional surgical assistant. the re isn't anything you don't know about an operating room. Given the chance, you could even perform some simple surgical procedures. You are meticulous about you r surroundings both in private and on the job. You are efficient at what you do, which makes patients more comfortable when you are in charge. Many of the staff surgeons have requested that you be moved to the ir shift, but you sternly but politely refuse, saying you do you r best work at night. Equipment: Hypodermic needle, scrub clothes, mask, catheter, the rmometer, rubbing alcohol. Street Child Quote: Nobody loves me, Everybody hates me, I'm gonna eat some worms. Prelude: Growing up in Harlem is a tough life, and you were one of the toughest. You had a Mom, but you never saw her around much. you r Dad never made an appearance after you were conceived. By the time you were 12 years old you had you r own street gang, but instead of looking for rumbles with the local punks, you devoted you r talents to drug dealing and developing the best information brokerage on the streets. You stole what you could get you r hands on to survive. It started with an occasional apple from a fruit vendor, the n you graduated to clothing and finally cash and credit cards. A couple of stints in reform school only helped you hone you r skills, learning tricks of the trade from you r classmates. === PAGE 32 === Before too long, you outgrew you r reputation. You began hearing about really weird happenings under the streets. One of you r lackeys went missing, the n another. It was time to find out who was invading you r turf. You followed a tip and ended up deep below the subway lines in a little used series of storm drains. The smell was unbearable. Worse than the usual New York filth. Something really big must have died here. Or maybe two or three somethings. Suddenly the re was a movement in the shadows. you r feet were frozen in place, as an animated horror shuffled into view. you r embrace was swift and painful. Concept: You now roam the sewers and streets in the New York night, along with the rest of the Samedi gang created by you r progenitor. He looks after you much like Fagin treated the boys in Oliver Twist. Who knows, maybe he was around at that time. Now you trade information for blood, safe have ns and hunting rights. You run with the three or four other kids in you r gang. After about 25 or 30 years, you figure that you will be pretty damn good at what you're do ing. Maybe the n you can strike out on you r own, embrace a few more brats and expand into other cities. The bigger the network, the better the hold you can have on the Kindred who think they run things. The Embrace has given you opportunities and abilities you could only dream about before, but has it been worth the price? Only time will tell... Roleplaying Tips: You are sharp and shrewd, and know the value of a juicy tip. You are also the consummate little boy brat. You carry worms, snakes, caterpillars and other critters (some of the m ghouls) in flesh pockets all over you r body. Nobody tells you what to do -- except for you r mentor. He's the father-figure you never had, and all you've got, so you might as well try to get along with him and the other brats in the Samedi gang. Equipment: Baseball cap, slingshot, bug jar, leather jacket with gang logo on back, ripped, soiled jeans, thrash band T-shirt. Camarilla Agent Quote: I prefer my refreshment shaken, not stirred. Prelude: When you were a little kid, you always played cops and robbers. You wanted to wear the blue uniform, just like Dad. the n the Kennedy assassination happened, and you were hearing all about the FBI and the CIA. Now those guys sounded more like it. That was the kind of life for you. Espionage and under cover work -- that's the way to go. So you stayed in school and ended up with a diploma in Law and Security. All you could find was a job as night watchman in a community hospital. Big deal. So you answered an ad for a night school course in private investigation. First thing you did when you completed the course

=== PAGE 33 === was quit you r job. It did n't turn out to be much better. Sure, you had you r own of fice and you were you r own boss, but following cheating husbands to gather evidence in divorce cases was neither exciting nor glamorous. You were on a particularly dull stakeout late one night when you saw movement in the all ey. Maybe somebody was getting roughed up. not hing likely to happen with the stakeout for another hour, so you went to investigate. You were about halfway do wn the dark narrow all ey when you heard something in the dumpster. You turned and drew you r weapon, but it was too late. You were jumped by what seemed to be a mobile corpse. The more you struggled, the worse the stench became. You lost consciousness. When you awoke, you were reviled and shocked to discover what you had become. It took awhile, but you found that you r vampiric talents actually made you a better investigator. In time, you became a competent agent, working for the different Clans. you r efficiency caught the attention of the Prince, who recommended you for undercover jobs. Now you work for her, but you'll consider anybody who can pay the price. Concept: You're very efficient and secretive. Once it is made, you will do everything possible to fulfil you r contract. You have many contacts locally and internationally, some Kindred and many Kine. you r unlike depends on you r honor and you r reputation, so you don't give away any secrets. You prefer to work alone, but you have been known to bring an assistant along, as long as she proves useful. Equipment: Maserati (with espionage toys), fingerprint dust, wiretaps, several passports, trenchcoat,.38 special with silencer. Healer Quote: don't than k me, just leave the usual in the cooler by the do or. Prelude: You began life as a simple Christian man. When you started school as a child, you could only attend half days, as you were needed to earn money for you r family at home. Life for you was peaceful, but always poor. You had trouble earning money, and never seemed to have enough to get out of debt. One day you found a despacho alongside the road. You put it in you r pocket and did n't really think anything about it. When you got home, it was after dark and the re was a little old man -- a complete stranger -- who asked you for shelter. You put him up in the summer kitchen. When you arose the next morning, he was gone. He came back asking for shelter for several nights. His visits were late, and one night you asked if he could come by earlier. "I can not," he said, "But you can come visit me in the cemetery at this hour every evening."

=== PAGE 34 === Why you were compelled to obey, you do not know. but you found you rself at the cemetery at the prescribed hour. It was the n that the old man revealed himself to you as one of the Bloodline Samedi, and Embraced you in a mausoleum. you r progenitor was a healer, and he taught you everything he knew. He showed you how to call you r spirit guide, which determined what kind of healing you were talented at. Before too long, you took over the region and became known as a great benefactor. You'd cure anyone for a bit of blood. Concept: You work alone, from an hour past sunset to an hour before sunrise. you r "clinic" is in the same summer kitchen you first let you r progenitor rest in. You have a couple of kitchen chairs, a basin with running water and a wooden dining room table that you use for both examinations and operations. you r tools are rudimentary at best -- kitchen knives, scissors, common pins and the like. the se you keep on a sideboard in a tin can. When you perform an examination, you call on you r spirit guide (a Frenchman), who possesses you and transfers his talents to you. The guide anaesthetists you r patients with a hazy mauve light. Sometimes in the middle of an operation the guide will call out in French for "More mauve light!" You have never spoken or learned a word of French in you r life. Roleplaying tips: You are reserved and quiet when not possessed by you r guide. When under his influence, you work with a rapidity and flair that is most unnatural to you r true self. You work all night, every night, helping the poor people who need you. All you ask is a do nation of blood. Never accept cash for any of you r work. You wear a dirty lab coat, and don't keep you r of fice particularly neat or clean. Equipment: Common kitchen tools, flashlight and extra batteries, rubbing alcohol and swabs. Demolitions Expert Quote: Yup. It blowed up real good. Prelude: You remember it well. It was the time of the California Gold Rush. Everybody had caught gold fever, and you were no exception. You started out as a "Miner 49er", but you never struck it rich. Best you managed to do was scrape together enough nuggets to fund you r expedition to the can asian North. So you travelled up the coast. It was a long and slow trip, first by steam locomotive the n just you and you r pack mule. You holed up in Dawson City, Yukon Territory, long enough to get you r bearings. the n you headed into the unknown. === PAGE 35 === Gold fever had gripped the continent. Competition was brutal and justice swift. Claim jumpers were everywhere. You were working deep in a hole you'd hewn out of the granite. You had just set the fuse to blow a particularly stubborn outcropping when you heard a sound behind you. You turned to look, the n turned ghostly white in shock. It must have been one of the m bush spirits the locals spoke about. It loomed in between you and the tunnel's exit, blocking you r way out. You figured that this was the end, but by God he wasn't going to jump you r claim and get away with it. So you lit the fuse and passed out from fright. When you regained consciousness, you were no longer in the mine. You were also no longer human. you r progenitor was pretty much a loner, and only embraced you because he did n't think you r time had come. He taught you the rudimentary basics about Kindred life, the n left, never to be seen again. Concept: Over the years you've honed you r skills in blowing things up. you r talents are available for hire to who mever can pay the price. you r contacts can provide you with almost any explosive material and device known to Man. You've even come up with a few or iginal ideas. You're proud of what you do, because it's all you have left from you r Kine life. So what if you're missing a few fingers or maybe part of a foot. It's part of the job. And part of being Bloodline Samedi. Roleplaying tips: The Embrace has made you a survivor. The best way you've figured out to survive in the Vampire world is to be of value to somebody higher up than you. You've been living in the cities for the past 50 years or so, following a brief stint overseas to observe and learn some of the military operations during World War II and the Korean Conflict. You'll talk to anybody that has a job to do and a fistful of cash to back the m up. Otherwise, you've got jobs to do. Equipment: C-4, fuses, batteries, hard hat with lamp on it, TNT, primer cord (lots), string of gold nuggets (sentimental value) Appendix: Samedi Who's Who Jose Santiago Jose Santiago was embraced in a small village in the Brazilian jungle in
1880. Before the embrace, he was married and had two children. He was a stocky man with short black hair, a bristly moustache and swarthy skin. He worked hard as a sharecropper, but never made money. His family was very poor, and the children were always hungry. Just after the end of World War II, he successfully called a spirit guide --
Dr. Fritz. Dr. Fritz was a "medical researcher" at a Nazi internment camp

=== PAGE 36 === during the Second World War. He committed suicide when the all ies liberated the camp. He was a master surgeon. When possessed by Dr. Fritz, Santiago wears a monocle. He speaks fluent German, even though he's never been taught anything but his native Brazilian Portuguese patois. He uses the crudest of instruments -- a paring knife, nail scissors, a pair of tweezers and an or diary sewing needle. the se he keeps in a rusty tin can in an unsanitary basement of fice/operating the atre. The condition of his practice (and the smell of the patients) masks his smell fairly effectively, and he wears a mask to hide his features. Dr. Fritz only physically manifests himself to Santiago. He appears as a middle aged, short, fat, balding German do ctor. The local poor, who can not afford any other medical attention, flock to Jose Santiago's after-hours clinic. He has never had any surgical or medical training, yet he can remove cataracts, set broken bones, stitch wounds or remove an appendix with no record of anyone ever getting an infection. When under the spell of Dr. Fritz, he slashes, stabs, twists and gouges with incredible, aggressive speed. Many peasants seek his aid every year, providing Santiago with a steady income and blood supply. He has been studied by a team of Tremere from Vienna, and he has numerous personal gifts from grateful people for services rendered. He works with out assistance. When being operated on, Santiago's patients are conscious, and they assist the surgeon the mselves. they will hold a vein, pass him a knife, and never sense pain. When the procedure is over, the only symptom will be that they feel tired. It seems that Dr. Fritz anaesthetizes Santiago's patients with a supernatural green light. Anyone watching Santiago operate may hear him call out in German for "more green light" during the procedure. Victoria Lebeau Victoria was a Cajun riverboat captain's daughter in Louisiana. She was 22 in 1894, and had been engaged to an all igator hunter. He was killed fighting "the granddaddy of all 'gators". It was more than Victoria could bear when she found his badly mauled body three weeks later in a bayou. She became suicidal and decided to throw herself to the mercy of the 'gators one night when the moon was full. Unknown to Victoria, she had been watched closely from the time she wandered into the all igator swamp. Just as the reptiles were gathering for the feast, blood gushing from gaping bite wounds in her thigh and abdomen, a frightening man of the swamp appeared. As the swoon of death closed in on Victoria, the Baron Samedi took her as his childe. === PAGE 37 === Victoria had been beautiful in life with thick, black hair and sharp black eyes. She could speak English, but preferred the language of the river -Cajun. Her past was meaningless now, as the horror of the Embrace had transformed her into a disgusting monster. A brief glimpse of her reflection in the oily water of the swamp filled her with revulsion. The Baron, Prince of the Bayou (if one can be Prince of a handful of ghouls, zombies and all igators) was patient, but left no room for kindness in his training of Vicki. He taught her that being Kindred was better than death, and that the Bloodline Samedi was of ten called upon to do the Kindred's dirty work -- both Camarilla and Sabbat. Vicki learned to be beholden to no one, and to give loyalty to who mever could pay the price. Victoria goes by the name Miss Vicki now. She frequents the bayous and graveyards of New or leans, and always attends the Mardi Gras can do mble. A few years ago she was almost killed by the Anathema Genina, the childe of Brigette, Baron Samedi's sister. She was intensely jealous of Vicki. With the help of a group of Camarilla Kindred, Genina was tracked to a have n in Tokyo, Japan, and brought back for trophy. Miss Vicki remains in the New or leans are a. She has been seen being courted by a Malkavian from the Chicago are a. His name is Kyle Scheaffer, and he has been seen operating the lights for night games at Wrigley Field. Baron Samedi The Baron is definitely the most famous Samedi, and one of the most well-known Kindred in the world today. Born in Africa, he was captured by slavers and sold in France. It was in Paris where he was embraced by "Gran'daddy". Soon the rafter, he embraced his sister Brigette. The Embrace turned Brigette into a being of pure hate and evil. Her wanton killing sprees were calling attention to the Kindred of Paris. After several attempts on the Baron's unlike, he bought passage on a ship for he and his sister to Haiti. While in Haiti, the Baron studied the arts of Voodoo from the Kine, the Setites and the Serpents of the Light. Brigette also studied, and became a very adept Quimbanda Iyu. It was about 150 years ago that the Baron, disappointed in Brigette and fearing that she would try to end his unlike, immigrated to Louisiana. The Baron has nurtured the local populace's fears about his bloodline, and his infamy has spread throughout the Kindred and Kine world. He travels around the Umbanda centers of North and South America. He always attends the Rio can do mble, when he catches up on the activities in his old friend Jose Santiago's unlike. === PAGE 38 === Genina The African child lived only a few years as Kine. She was captured by Portuguese slavers and transported to Haiti when she was five years old. On Haiti, she heard stories about horrible creatures that sucked the blood of the living. Her interest in Voodoo grew, and she began secretly attending Voodoo rituals. At one, she saw Brigette drain a child. Brigette knew Genina was watching. Before Genina could escape, Brigette had captured her and given her the Samedi sting. Brigette was a cruel and violent sire. Genina's abuse twisted her very soul. She escaped Brigette shortly before Baron Samedi left Haiti, and struck out on her own, eventually making all egiances with the Ravnos (no one knows how) and the Followers of Set. Genina hated all Kindred and was a particularly vicious but cher. She travelled from city to city, committing grisly murders. She arranged her kills in such a way as to break the Masquerade, thus hoping to expose the kindred of the city. For this she was branded Anathema, the trophy clan being the Ventrue. The last city she set up was Chicago. She caught the attention of a group of Camarilla Kindred who, under the direction of Ventrue Prince Lodin, tracked her back to New or leans. She escaped the country with the Prince of Baton Rouge, who m she used to purchase safe passage from a sect of Japanese Kindred. The Camarilla group tracked her to Tokyo where she was staked and brought back to Clan Ventrue for Trophy. is altina is altina is a well-known Umbanda healer. She is a native of Brazil, born in the city of Natal and embraced when she was about 34 years of age. Her sire drew the Embrace out over a number of days, with is altina growing weaker and weaker. Only when she was bedridden did her sire bring her to Bloodline Samedi. is altina was immediately taken in and trained in the ways of Umbanda. She survived her name-giving, following the guide Yemanja. When the Iyu of her can do mble was killed by a hunter on the way to the Rio can do mble, she became Iyu of Natal. Her specialty is tarot card readings, and indeed when she is not on of facial business, is altina can be found at night in a tent on the outskirts of town, selling readings to Kindred and Kine alike. Her readings are very accurate. It has been said not to go to is altina with questions you don't know the answers to, for you may not like what you hear. === PAGE 39 === Table-rapping is a tool is altina loves to delight clients with. It works like this: A group sits around a heavy wooden table, hands placed on it palms do wn. The individuals the n ask the table questions. The table will rap on the floor once for no and twice for yes. If a more detailed answer is sought, the questioner recites the alphabet, and the table will rap once when a letter is reached. The questioner starts over again and again, until the words in the answer are spelled out. * You can make a ladyfinger ** You can set of f dynamite using an electric fuse *** You can make plastique bombs with timers **** You can make a bomb that very few experts can find or defuse. ***** You chatted with the scientists at the Trinity Site about this atomic thing.