I

I

THE LIVE-ACTION GAMING MAGAZINE

I i

## Min Linds Eye JOURNAL

1 1

KS

## ML ind s Eye Iheatre OURNAL 一

BECAUSE THE MIND'S EYE NEVERBLINKS

WELCOMETO THE MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL, the MAGAZINETHATPICKSUPWHEREOTHER MIND'SEYEPUBLICATIONSLEAVEOFF. ## OURFIRST is SUE PRESENTS: - LIVE-ACTIONRULESFORPLAYINGPUMONCA
- ADAPTATIONSOFTHETRUEBLACKHANDTOMET
- WORLDOFDARKNESSFICTION
- DEADLYARCANETREMERE RITUALS
- TOPICALISSUESONLIVE-ACTIONROLEPLAYING AND MORE! THE JOURNAL PROVIDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TOMAKE you R MIND'S EYE the ATRE CHRONICLES MORE DIVERSE, COMPLEXANDCOMPLETE! WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE? c

A

## CREDITS

Authors: Charles Bailey, Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Shane De Freest, Jess Heinig and Lindsay Woodcock

Developer: Carl Bowen

Editor: Ken Cliffe

Art Director: Rich Thomas

Photogra pher: J.P. Rhea

Front and Back Cover Design: Matt Milberger

Layout and Typeset ting: Matt Milberger

## SPECIAL than KS and rew 'Why are you talking?' Bates, for making me feel like part of the family. Rich 'Fed-Ex' Dansky, for exploi ting an intern who can't pack a box. Ed 'Two Fatal Errors' Hall, for giving me a chance anyway. Ken 'Elephant Man' Cliffe, for m y second editing test. And for liking peanuts. Jess 'Invisible Gryphons' Heinig, for at least giving me somet hing to work with. Justin R. 'I'm sexy' Achilli, for making the Sabbat Guide... interes ting. And to Phil Brucato, all ison Sturms, Cary Goff, Ian Lemke and Jane Palmer, for all the wonders you have yet to discover. 0 1999 White Wolf Publis hing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduc tion with out the written permis sion of the publi sher is expre ssly for bidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank chara cter sheets, which may be reprod uced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masque rade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension and World of Darkness are regist ered tradeQJRKIJON, CA 30 0 2 1 USA

marks of White Wolf Publis hing, Inc. All rights reserved. were wolf the Apocal ypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Change ling the Dreaming, were wolf the Wild West, Trinity, Mind's Eye the atre Journal, L a w s of the Night, Savage West, L a w s of the Wild, L a w s of the W y l d West, Laws of the Hunt, Oblivion, Antagon ists, Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand and The Shining Host are tradem arks of White Wolf Publis hing, Inc. All rights reserved. All charac ters, names, places and text herein are copyrig hted b y White Wolf Publis hing, Inc. The mention of or refer ence to any company or product in the se pages is not a chall enge to the trade mark or copyr ight conce rned. This book uses the supernat ural for settings, charac ters and the mes. All mystical and supernat ural elements are fiction and intended for entertain ment purposes only. Reader discre tion i s advised. Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.white wolf and rec.games.frp.storyte ller PRINTED IN THE USA. BECAUSETHEMIND'SEYENEVERBLINKS

## TABLEOF CONTENTS

| Anotefrom me on the purpose and goals of this magazine. | 4 |
| UP from THE PIPES “Who am I?Why am I here？" | 5 |
| THE CURRENT THINKING An opinion for um from Mind's Eye players on is sues of interest. | 7 |
| DEADGUY SPEAKS are gularcolumn from Rich Dansky, for merMETdevel oper, nprettymuchwhat ever feels like talking about. | 12 |
| ENOCHIAN MYSTICISM Rulesandsuggestionsonworkingthefear some Talmahe Raintoyour live-action Vampirechroni cles. | 17 |
| FRONTIER FELINES: PUMONCAFORWYLD WEST 27 The Garou are not alone in the Savage West.Other feral guard ians patrol the Pure Lands. | |
| MASTER-LEVEL'THAUMATURgY RITUALS what to teach the Tremerewhoknowseveryt hing. | 41 |
| COMBINED DISCIPLINESFOR THE LONGNIGHT A deadly blend of mysticalpowersmakesvamp ires the undisp uted lords of the Dark Ages. | 51 |
| FICTION:“ANY MOTHER'SCHILD" by you rs Truly. | 61 |
| MAYDAY! PART I: AMBASSADOR A story line to includein your Oblivion chron icle that will impact all of Stygia. | 69 |
| FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS | 74 |
| EVENT HORIZON | 78 |

## welcomet othe Mind's eue the atrejou rnal! Well, kidsthisisourfirstiss ueof the Journal and myfirst attemptatactu ally developinganyt hing other than Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, so Ibetyou're all wonde ring exactlywhatyouvegot here.Friendsandga mers, letmetel lyou, you'vegotoneofthe best ideastocometo live-actionrolepla ying(LARPing, for thosewhoareb rand-spanking-new to the genre)since the relea seof Lawsofthe Night. the Journal is a quart erly(that'sonce every three month sfor those of you newto the magazineg enre)publicationdedic ated tofillinginthegapsin your White WolfLARP environ ment.Weofferrulesfornew charactert ypes, or iginalstorylinestoworkinto your chroni cles, guidesforkeepingyourgamesundercontrolandrunningsmoo thly, and rules updatesyo uwon't find in any other Mind's Eyerel ease.Plus, you'll find answers tothe quest ions that have plagued your chroni cles(Why can't gargoyle sfly now when the y could inthe Dark Ages?), or iginal Worldof Darknessfic tion, and columns from thosewho've been the reyetsurvivedto tell the tale.the Journalispackedwithf acts and guides that expandupon what'spubli shed in the METbooks. In this is sue, we take a look behind the scenes with the Tal'mahe'Ra(the True Black Hand), into the Pure Landsof the Savage Westattheferoc ious Pumonca tribeof Bastet, and into theveryjawsofthearcanetounearthsomepowe rful occultsecretsknowntoonlythe most powerfuland wise Tremere(Now, if only I can getmy hands ona Lupine's skin....).And that's just a sampleof what'sinstorefo ryou here.We'vealsog otan Oblivionadven ture that willrock your who leshadowedworldalookatwhatmadevampiresthetruelordso fthe Dark Ages, and more. Infuture ssues well lookintorolepla ying or ganizations that support Mind's Eye （the re are avariety of live-actionc lubs out the re), how tokeep"problem players"under control, waystomake yourMETchroniclesmorerealist icin and outof game, and anythingelseyoumight need toround outyour live-actionchron icle. And you can helpmake the Journal evenbe tter.Send us letters onyouropin ions about the stateof live-actionrolepla ying today.Sendusquest ions about the feature sand rulesyousee here, and about the brokenr ules you findelsewhe reinMET.Send us horror stories of gamesgonew rong and how yourcharactersf ixed the m.We'reintere sted inall aspec tsof live-actionrolepla ying, and wewant toknowwha tyou think. Stick around The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre;we've got somethingforevery body.and ifwedon'thavei tyet, letus know.Wellgetitfo ryou. Carl Bowen, Developer carl@white-wolf.com White Wolf Attn:Mind's Eye Theatre Joumal Developer 735Park North Blud Suite128

USA

## UP FROM THE PIPES by Yours Truly

all thatsaidaboutthemagaineletmetellyouabitaboutmy self Afterall, the resnly somuchtheseitalicizedi ntro-headerscanrevealabo utme.o, for onetime only, ougetthe insidescoopo nhow Ibecame devel oper of the Mind's Eye Theatre Journal.Ifyoure interestedintheenthrallingstoryo fhow Igotmyj obat White Wolfinthefirstp lace, check outmybioatourweb site(http://www.white-wolf.com). Okay, so Igotintothisbyhittingmyfriends with low-gradeplum bing supplies onthewee kend.Itsbeenalongandconvoluted road from there tohere, but inany case, here Iam, developinga live-actionmagazinestraightfro mthe source.How did I do it?I scarcelyknowmy self anymore. My introduc tion torolepla ying（live-actio nand tabletop)came in late high school in the for m of one large, tape-wrapped piece of padded PVCpipe.Onmy way outof the school parkin glot one after noon, Inoticed two acquainta nces hackingvicio usly away at each otherwithidentic ally ineffectivewea pons.I had to stop and inquire as towhat the heck the setwow ould-be combat ants thought the y were do ing. Turns out the y were practi cing for a rolepla ying"event" that weekend in which the ywould assume the personas of charac ters the yhaddesi gned, the n lay into theranksofvillainousgob lins, ogresandprettymuchanybodyelsewholo oked at the mwitha particul arly sinister cast."It'skinda like AD&amp;D, but you get to actually swing the sword you rself,' the y informed me. 'And you throw beanbags at each other, too.'

I, in my infinite wisdom at the time, respo nded, 'AD@D? What's that, a Dungeons € 4 Dragons knock-of f? How obvious can you get?'

Deciding the n that perhaps sword-and-sorcery-type LARPs were not exactly my bag, my acquainta nces told me that the y particip ated in another game in which all confl icts and confrontat ions were resolved by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors -that the re was n't so much of the socking-each-other-with-the-padded-pipes business. That type of game seemed a little more my speed, so the y loaned me a battered copy of Vampire: The Masque rade as 'refer ence material,' and of f I went. Unfortuna tely, I fell out of touch with my two erstw hile gamer buddies shortly after retur ning the ir book to the m, and I did n't do much rolepla ying until college (though other friends of mine and I did make our own padded swords and hack at each other when the need -and our raging, unrequ ited hormones -overtook us and we had to vent or die). In college, I got a slightly better educa tion in the fine points of tabletop rolepla ying ('Boy, this When Will You Rage antho logy is cool. I wonder what it's like to b e one of the se were wolves....'), and I discov ered a troupe of live-action garners on campus. I'd actually been in a Vampire tabletop game or two by this point, so natur ally I was ready to go. I spent my first couple of live-action games wande ring from chara cter concept to chara cter concept until I happened upon somet hing I liked and stuck with it. I was concurre ntly involved in increasi ngly more complex and mature tabletop rolepla ying games, and I was thorou ghly hooked by the end of my senior year. I loved the World of Darkness, favored Vampire and were wolf, and adored the live-action expres sion of those two games. So, after college, on a whim, I sent my r6sum6 to White Wolf (among other publis hing compa nies across the state) and waited to see if the re might be a job for me. As luck would have it, my gaming experi ence (and my prefer ence for White Wolfs material) compleme nted my editing skills, and I landed a job as an editor. Three short months later, my manager (or Derfishinkana dian, Hew Cliffe, as I call him when he's well out of earshot) of fered me the chance to develop this quart erly. It's a perfect match, actually. I've come a long way from the 'How in the world could you have a die with only four sides?' high schooler to the publi sher-gamer I am now. Likewise, M E T has come a long way from its boxed-set roots. The game and its systems will continue to change, and as I grow and change with it, I'll keep you all up to date. If you have quest ions, comments, advice, death threats (or pretty much what ever), let me know. I'm always here, 24 hours aday (though I only answer e-mail in an eight-hour block between 9:OO and 5:00), and I'd love to hear from you. Carl Bowen carl@white-wolf.com

## THF CURRFNT THINKINCj

Ah.., conflict.Ifnothing else, that'swhatthisregularco lumn is for.Sortofac ross betweenar ound-tablediscussion andaWWFcage-match, this istheplacetohas hout is suesregar ding Mind's Eye, from licen sing torule-brokenne sstoLARPing style.Give meyoupinionsreondtopinionouseehrebribmejusttogetouame init, what ever.Justkeepitrelativelycleanandsta yoff the badsi deof thosewithwho myou disagree.Afterall, that keen-edgedrapierwitisdesi gned for eachot hers'argument sand opinions, not for each others'personal lives. l'm never sure what sparks the se discuss ions.The first couple of letters involve the pros and cons of running an e-mail list about you r LARP, between sessions. I found the second topic brewing on an e-mail list based on"Athens by Night, anindepen dent, White Wolf-inspired LARPin Georgia.The topic, in its barest for m, is simply this:Is it better to be a"sancti oned"LARPor an indepen dent one, and why.And away we go.... [Ane-mail] list is a goodway tokeep tabson what'sgoingon, and which way the gameishea ding.lso, itcanprovidesomensightintoothercharac ters, and keepyourinte rest upbetweeng ames.It is also invaluableforkeepingincon tact with otherpla yers in or der toplot and scheme.I thinkthelistdou bles as a harpy networksometimesaswelbecausepeopleargue onit, and saystupidthing sand the ngetfl amed onit, or sing the praises of somewo rthy chara cter.My Vampire LARP] do esn'treally have any harpies, and I think the list helps fill the void created by the ir absence. Ginnie Copley

## I alsorece iwed: Iwould liketogoonrecordassaying that Ilikeseeingr ules-changediscuss ions onthe list.Itkeepsme from askin gthe Storytellersthe same questionsano ther playe rhas asked.this saves the Storytel lers timew hich the y can puttobe tter use plotting new ways to confound [usl. PS:If it gets annoying, the re's always the delete key. Jason Dilling

## And onto topic two... To the Storytel lers of"Athens by Night,"

Why in the name of all that is (or is not) holy have you adopted this overcomplicated systemofnum bers, proportionsofnumberstoeachotherand statistics that sacrif ices rolepla ying (and thus the entire purpose of LARP... which contrary to popular belief is NOT to 'beat shit up') for the ability to create charac ters who are more complic ated than the y are in the tabletop games? Why not use some facade of 'realism' (used in quotes because it is, after all, rolepla ying) and get Camarilla-certi fied so you can be intelli gent rolepla yers and not absurd rules-mongers? I know lots of great unsancti oned games that are good because the rolepla ying is good, not because lots of big vampires run around and diable rize each other. Paul Daniel Bond

The follo wing respo nses folloru the basic e-mail reply for mat of cite the or iginal text aside and arguing point by point. ## Mister Bond, Why in the name of all that is (or is not) holy have you adopted this overcomplic ated system that sacrif ices the rolepla ying (and thus the entire purpose of LARP... )? So we should jump on the Mind's Eye the atre bandw agon and just say to hell with clearly defined rules? The live-action environ ment is, if anything, more complic ated than tabletop. It demands a more comprehen sive rules system. Why not use some facade of 'realism' (used in quotes because it is, after all, rolepla ying) and get Camarilla-certi fied so you can be intelli gent rolepla yers and not absurd rules-mongers? So since we're not in the Camarilla, we're not cool? Talk about complex. I for one do n't want to have to certify my plotl ines just so I can become one with White Wolfs fan club. Steve Mc Donald -Athens by Night Storyte ller

After a personal e-mail back from Bond (in bold). ## [Daniel], I have played with both the Mind's Eye the atre system and our system. I unders tand that one of the reasons that Mind's Eye combat is so poorly defined is because combat is discour aged. I think this is a bad idea, as combat is, in many ways, inevit able in the World of Darkness. Dark for ces collide and destroy one another. Part of the problem here is that a lot of what would be backgr ound in a tabletop game (behind-the-scenes strikes by underl ings/ lackeys/ ghouls) must be carried out by players in live-action. You can't just stick you r head in the sand and say 'combat sucks' and hope it won't happen. Rolepla ying is the center of anything we do. But if you leave a section of the rules poorly defined simply because you do n't like it, the n it will come back to haunt you. Tehehe. You make me sound like an elitist and that makes me smile. The Camarilla wants you to certify plotl ines so bullshit like rampant Masqueradebrea ches (and I KNOW you have a massive problem with that, to the point that a justicar threat ened to kick you out of the Camarilla if the y were n't stopped), I

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL unreali stic gaming (you r disproportio nate number of Kindred, you r Nosferatu prince, you r propen sity for inclu ding were rats, were spiders and lots of other rare creat ures into you r game), and general stupi dity. - 1) We, as Storytel lers, sentanar chon(not ajust icar) into the game inthe last session. 2. 2 ) ( h e of the things that makes Athens by Night an exciting and interes ting game is the fact that we break out of the for m that every other Vampire LARP has set. How many times can you come into a seven-clan game with a Ventrue prince and little or no outside supernat ural presence (which seems to be stock-in-trade for every other LARP in the who le wide world) and not get bored? We're an alterna tive. Part of being an alterna tive is do ing things differe ntly. Once word of Steve and Daniel's argument got out to the greater Athens by Night e-mail list, others regist ered the ir opinions. 1' 1 1 jump in here: The point of a LARP is just that: to roleplay in live action. Period. The purpose is not to 'beat shit up' (I'll say this once again as you ignored it the first time. If it were, you would be right. Since it is not, I am right. The purpose [of Athens by Night] is not just to roleplay. Ifwe wanted that, we would conduct a play. [ABN] is a game, as well as a rolepla ying event. The goal is to balance the rolepla ying and game aspects. This is hard, and diffe rent LARPs strike a diffe rent balance. But that do esn't make one LARP more 'right' than another. It's just diffe rent, that's all. Richard Coleman

## And so did others. [Mister Bond], Rolepla ying is almost entirely based on the non-rules related aspects of the game. Whether the rules say I must play Rock-Paper-Scissors to do challe nges, or play entire games of Monopoly to do so, I can roleplay what ever I desire. I can be asmarmy Ventrue car dealer or I can be a pissy, stupid Scottish kilt-wearin' Brujah.... ( and thus the entire purpose of LARP... which contrary to popular belief is NOT to 'beat shit up')... Purpose of a LARP? Who says so... Yahweh? What if in the course of rolepla ying, I decide to beat shit up? Am I not all owed? It's my shit, after all. Besides, being Camarilla-certi fied is no guara ntee of being an intelli gent rolepl ayer. Rolepla ying (and rules-monge ring) is in the indivi dual player, not the rules. The Masque rade Second Edition and Laws of the Night are each twice the length of AIT's rules [AIT i s another indepen dent LARP run in Atlanta], and I know we are at least neck and neck with ABN. If you need you r rules to be custom tailored as you r roleplayingcr utch, feel free to find agame that suits you. Meanwhile, I do n't tell the Iranians how to run the ir country... because I do n't live the re and the y do n't directly affect any of my inter ests. Why do es this seem to bother you so? Scott Mc Daniel, Atlanta Interac tive the ater

## And others... ## Dear Mr.Paul Daniel Bond, - 1.how can rules make people beat shit up?Remember guns do n't kill people; people who shoot people with guns kill people. - 2.the mostimpor tant thing about LARPing is not rolepla ying but is having fun.I can only assume we must be having fun since the re are always 100+ people atourg ames. - 3.Of coursewe have someviol ence(maybea little bit more than that) but what do you think will happen when you have100+vampires in one city? - 4.Asfor"reali smwe are a bunch of peoplepreten ding tobevamp ires.How much morereal can weget? - 5.the re are many diffe rent types of people inthisw orld.Some like to"beat shitup';othersliketorole play.Our Storytellershavenotmadesomew orld for just One typeof person, but foranyon ewho is nterestedin roleplayingorbeating shit up,"or any other such aspects of LARP. will iam Boyer

## And finally... [Daniel], First,I have playedin both the Athens game and other LARPs.Whileat first glanceABN'srule smay appearexcessivelycom plex, inrealitythe systemwe uses lesscomplexduringactual play.Toplayachara cter, itisonlynecessarytokno whow the rulesapp lyto you rchara cter.the pointsystemw euse in placeof the vocal Trait systemiseasiertoteachtonewplayersfastertousetogeneratenew character sand easier tokeep trackof than the Trait system in Mind's Eye Theatre. Second, the attackso nour Storytellersarecompletelyunfou nded.Ihavebeen playingtableto pandLARPsforover14yearsasbothagamemasterandpl ayer.The peoplewh orun ourgame are bynomeansp ower-hungry.the re are somevio lent charac ters in the game, but gener ally those people are designed as anarchs, somethingeverycampaignn eeds.the quality of the Storytel lers'workis high and the valueoftheircontributionshouldnotbedenigratedbysomeonewhohasn ever attended a perform ance.Awise critic sees the play before hewrites the review. the re is more than enough roomfor many variantg ames with in the genre.In fact, Athens is curre ntly the subject of a schol arly study inlive-action the ater. With all dueres pect, Jason Dilling

## So what does Daniel Bond have tosayt oall this? the beauty of the Mind's Eye Theatre system is that it givesyou freedom. Gonearethedaysofyorewhenweallsat with GMscreensthatdescr ibed count less modif iers, clarificat ions and random-monstergenera tors.All the crap is stripped away, and you canconcentrateonjustenjoyingyour roleplayingexperi ence.ive action of fers you the chance to do more than say,"My chara cter hides behind a tree."By God, you actually hidebe hind that tree. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL the reason the Trait-based system is superior is simple:It actually encour ages peopletono tget socaught upin the rules.I for one hated the daysof referen cing the book every single time a rules-related question arose.With the Trait-based system, you bid, you resolve and you move on. Character creationinthesy stem enable syou tofles hout you rcharacter more than you everc ould in a number-based system.What's the differ ence between one characterw itha Manipulati onof5and another with4?Untilyouge tout the reand find the words that describeyourchara cter, the reisnone.the Mind's Eyesystem is simple, it'seasyanditmakesformoreclearlydefinedcharac ters!Nomorecom plex numberg ames that catert othe accountantintheg roup.Now anyonecanjoina long and not fearthatsome well-versedruleswhore will takeadvanta geof him. Ilike the factthateverythin glin Mind's Eyelisn't defined inexten sive books. People should worry aboutchara cter, not rules.Myfoes[in this debate]seemto believe that the rules make the man.If the reisn'ta clear defini tion of every gun's kick, every explo sion'sblastra dius, very sword'sexactl ngth, and everyper sons time torunthe mile, Ithinkit'sagood thing.Ifyou wantdetailedrulesandspe lled outrea lity, play tabletop or do mathproblemsfo rfun. ## FURTHER FUEL

Two wery diffe rent wiewpo ints; two opinions with the same answer. Both say the ir system leaves the chaff behind and makes way for rolepla ying.... What's you r opinion? Are the MET rules too complic ated, oversimpli fied or just right? Ho w far can we reason ably expect you to stretch our 'Cjolden Rule' to adapt the rules for you r setting? How far i s too far before you lose the rolepla ying and Storytel ling aspects that make our games what the y are? Let me hear from you! you cane-mail you ranswers to the se points, or opinionsonsubj ects of you r choosing to carlaw hite-wolf.com, or mil the m to: White Wolf Publis hing Inc. Attn: Mind's Eye the atre Journal

735 Park North Blud. Suite 128

USA

## DFADCjUY -SPFAKS by Richard E.Dansky

Rich has been a part of White Wolf since just shortly before Christ crawkd from the primor dial ocean at Cyprus. He has devel oped Mind's Eye the atre, Wraith: The Oblivion and Vampire: The Dark Ages. Watchfor this column to showcase Rich's unique insight, wit, observat ions on life in general, and (should we be so lucky) his views on Mind's Eye the atre develop ment. In his first column, Rich relates the tak of how Mind's Eye came into its current incam tion. ## CHAPTER ONE: you R LAWS, ## MY TRICEPS

It all started because my arm got tired. Honest. I could n't make this stuff up if I wanted to. Itwas November, 1995. I'd just come on board as the devel oper for Wraith: The Oblivion and Mind's Eye the atre, and I was about to get shipped of f to my first conven tion appear ance. The place: Kansas City. The conven tion: Shauncon. The reason I was the re: I was the first devel oper our con-support guy saw (the others having heard his ominous foots teps and gone to ground until he had seized another victim. Picture the dinosaur sequence in Fantasia -the one in which the stegosa urus gets it in the neck -and you've pretty much got the idea). The folks at Shauncon were very friendly and helpful, and the y got in touch with me well before the event to see what I'd be intere sted indoing, what I'd like to see, and so on; the y were perfect hosts. As part of that conversa tion, the y menti oned that the y had a long-running Masque rade game, a chapter of which would take place at the conven tion, and that the y'd written a special-guest part that the y'd love to have me play. So if I could just see my way clear to popping into chara cter for a few hours Saturday night.... 'Sure,' I said. 'It sounds great! Let me know what sort of chara cter it is, so I can bring appropr iate costu ming.'

Well, that's what I said out loud. Intern ally, I was screa ming. 'What are you do ing? What i f y o u make a m i s t a k e? You'we newer played anything besldes a Tor&amp; with a goofy accent! What i f y o u screw up -the y'll lose all respect for you and the product line! AAAAAGGHHHH!'

(Mind you, this who le thing took place before I was informed that White Wolfdevelo pers are supposed to spend convent ions drunk and surly at hotel bars, as opposed to playing in games. I have since had my misapprehen sion corre cted and can now be found at most major convent ions sitting in the corner of the local watering hole, guzzling various unidentifi able fluids and channe ling m y inner black-clad hooligan. He likes Amaretto Sours and Purpom hard cider, in case you feel like bribing him.)

So I for tified myself for the potenti ally traum atic experi ence. Armed with the proper equip ment ( IO-foot pole, a do zen iron spikes, 50 feet of rope and a.22 autom atic), I desce nded into the 'Out of Print' pile in the wareh ouse in hopes of excava ting a copy of the Players Kit. Why? Because I was going to be playing a Giovanni -and at the time we had no rules for playing Giclvanni in print. Oops. 'This is probably somet hing I should rectify,' I said to myself, even as I hacked my way through the tenta cled nasties who guarded the piles of books I needed. Emerging victor ious, I sat do wn in my of fice with my prize and a copy of Masque rade 2nd Edition (not to mention Antagon ists and, for some unknown reason, The Book of Props) and started reading. My goal was to memorize every single word of all of those books before I got on the plane for Kansas City. So I read. And I read. And the n I read some more. My e-mail account clogged. My mailbox overfl owed. Dirty dishes in my sink at home began breat hing, devel oped language skills and voted to secede from m y apart ment. In the end, though, it was worth it -I managed to get every single word of those suckers do wn. I was a walking encyclop edia of rules knowl edge. Headheld high, I tookmyse aton the aircraft, settled inwitha Thomas Ligottishorts tory collec tion, and let the friendly skies convey me to where I was going. And somew here over Tennessee, I managed to for get every blessed word I'd read. So, to make a long story short (too late, I know), I arrived safely in KC, but as a virtual tabula rasa of live-action informa tion. The game rolled around. I did the only thing I could. I tucked the entire MET library under my arm for refer ence, muttered a swift prayer and went of f to play. (No one really needs to hear about the steakh ouse meeting with the vegeta rian who'd thrown his front do or onto the firep lace for warmth, the funky chicken eers at the wedding next do or, the bar band's salsa-flavored rendi tion of Van Morrison's Greatest Hits, or about the half-do zen or so gamers who m I found strewn across my hotel room, asleep, Saturday morning. Caveat: I'd never met any of the m before, I have n't seen any of the m since, I have no idea what any of the ir names were, and the only concrete fact I have about the matter was the knowl edge that at least three of the m snored like a godda mned bandsaw factory on swing shift.)

Five hours later, I was back in my hotel room with one not iceable differ ence. (Okay, two -I'd cleaned the gamers out.) My right arm, the one I'd used to carry the books, was about two inches longer than the left, and it felt like someone had emphatic ally and repeat edly mistaken it for a large, pinkish piece of linguine. Oh, the game had gone well -I'd wandered into town, made my introduct ions, acquired the ridiculo usly powerful magical who sits that I was supposed to remove from play, mucked with a few of the more uppity players and the n strolled of f into the night. My mission was accompli shed, my work was do ne, and I'd managed to avoid being asked any quest ions I could n't answer. But boy, was my arm tired. The longer I sat the re thinking about it, the more I realized that the situa tion simply was n't satisfac tory. The books were heavy and awkward, and the y simply looked out of place next to costu ming. Players who had made the invest ment in tuxedos or evening gowns, or even just the invest ment of time and effort to look right for the ir charac ters, deserved better than to be weighted do wn with a stack of 8.5-by-1 I-inch green books. The old for mat was simply too obtru sive, and it did too much to shatter the game's illusion. Besides, my arm was tired. I had no inten tion of ever lugging that many books around for that long in that heavy a jacket again. (Costuming not e for all you would-be Giovanni out the re: Black's a great color for dressing up, but when the only black clothes you have are wool, it's okay to vary things a little. Even in November. Trust me.)

So I started thinking. Problem#l was that the books were physic ally awkward. Problem #2 was that neces sary material was n't avail able to players. Problem #3 was that, and I have to be honest here, the rules did n't work terribly well. (Yeah, I know, the y're still not perfect, but we're trying here. Honest.) Scattered over three books and two editions, drawn from do zens of sources, the rules of ten contradi cted one another, making it neces sary for folks to tote around hundreds of pages worth of Photoshop-bespan gled refer ence material. Something clearly had to be do ne. So Sunday night, I sat do wn with the two gentl emen who ran the game I'd played in, and over friendly conversa tion, I floated the idea. 'What would you guys think,' I said -'and this is just an idea, mind you -of a pocket-sized rulebook for Mind's Eye the atre? None of the storytel ling material, minimal backgr ound -just the rules in a size that you could carry with you and that you could tuck into a pocket when you were n't using it.'

For what it's worth, the y liked the idea. I can't tell you exactly what the y said (parti ally because I'm not sure I can quote it accura tely, parti ally because the things I can remember to quote accura tely are n't necessa rily print able in a family rolepla ying journal), but the y liked it. If the y had n't, I probably would have scrapped the who le idea and gone back to figure out how many curls I would have needed to do in or der to prep for the next game. But armed with a mandate from folks who were elbow-deep in the game, and who knew what the y needed to make the ir games run more smoothly, I could go back home and set up the project (that is, after the incident with the massive hangover, the Star Wars' line designer, the ship's bell and the approxima tely 4000 miniat ures). Ittookaw hile, and it tooksomeconvin cing.The ideaofapocketg uide-justr ules, not hing else -was so contrary to what we'd do ne before that some folks were skept ical of it. I knew the idea was a good one, though, and once I not ed to People in High Places that we would n't be incur ring any new writing costs on the book, I got the green light. That's when the fun started. Initially, the idea of the book was simply to cut and paste the rules files from the old books into the new one. It would be easy, fast and useful -and it would save m y sanity, because I was working on Wraith 2nd Edition at the same time. Unfortuna tely, this simple plan ran into a few snags. First of all, the files for the Players Kit were nowhere to be found. While I could do with out the print specs for the blood capsules that were included in the or iginal box, I did sort of need the files for the lesser clans, the ir Discipl ines and all of the other crunchy goodness that needed to go into the book. Eventu ally the diskette with the required files turned up. (If I remember corre ctly, it was in the Marketing depart ment, filed with the details of the White Wolf Microbre wery idea that than kfully never got of f the ground, and was labeled 'I Gotcher Barney do omWADs Right Here.' But I could be mistaken.) Pulling up the files led to problem number two: the y were amess. I mean, I knew the re were a few discrepan cies between The Masque rade and the Vampire Players Guide, but once I started digging in, I realized that more work was needed. A lot more work. As a matter of fact, so much work was needed that I had no idea where to start. the re was only one thing to do: Go back to the source. I bundled mysel ffor the Atlanta winter (yep, that meant a longsl eeve shirt and jeans) and headed of f to the Red Light Caf6, where the local Vampire LARP crowd hung out on Tuesday nights. I sat do wn at a table and snagged random passe rsby, asking the m what the y felt needed changing; scoping out which rules needed to be cleaned up or explic ated better. Hoo boy, did I get anearful. Three hours later, I staggeredoutu nder the weightofmyn otes. the n, masoc hist that I am, I fired up the computer and asked the same quest ions of friends who played M E T all over the conti nent. The response was avala nche-like in its volume, inten sity and ambient tempera ture. People had a lot of concerns. Even worse, a great many of those concerns and proposed fixes contradi cted each other. It was hopeless. So I did what any sane man would do in that sort of situa tion. I screamed for help. Help arrived in the for m of Editrix (no, that's not a dirty word, and get you r minds out of the gutter, you filthy-headed brutes) Cynthia Summers, who se experi ence with actual Mind's Eye gameplay dwarfed mine, and who had long since set herself up as the Cerberus of M E T. not hing that saw print for the line escaped her baleful gaze -which was a good thing for me. We sat do wn with the old files, copious not es, e-mails and a healthy supply of caffein ated bever ages, and we decided which changes needed to be made, who se ideas for fixes were worth follo wing up on, and who m we were going to pummel sense less when the process was all over. I also had the unenvi able task of decidingpreci sely what material went into the book. The basic clans and Discipl ines? the y had to be in the re. The Sabbat? Sort of a neces sity, I thought. Minor clans and bloodl ines? Well, the y were n't avail able anywhere else. Other Discipl ines? If the clans were going to be in the re, the appropr iate rules had to be as well. Backgr ound? At least some, for new players just picking up the book. The basics of the game? Indubit ably. A little bit of common-sense warning? A neces sity, in light of all the rumbles about PTAs and religiouswatc hdog groups has sling MET games. A FAQ? Conside ring the number of changes we'd made, it sort of had to go in the re. You see how books get big, fast? Suddenly a 50,000-wordcut-and-paste job had turned into a 110,000-word monstro sity. Some things got cut out of the draft -the re was no choice if we wanted it to fit between two cover sbut still, it remained a towering, imposing pile of verbiage. A month or so later, a manusc ript emerged. With much fanfare and other goofi ness, it went through the copy-editing process -multiple times -and eventu ally emerged into the light of Produc tion and layout. Those of you with long memories might not e that Laws of the Night was the first of the MET books to not have acover adorned with photogr aphs and Photoshop. Rather, the book's cover has a subdued gray marble backgr ound and little else -just logos (which are somet hing of a design neces sity). That was delibe rate. The idea (has hed out in many discuss ions with the talented Mr. Larry Snelly and Ms. Katie Mc Caskill, who laid out the book) was to create a book that achara cter could carry -or even open -during play, with out having it look like, well, a game book. Hopefully, we could put the rules in somet hing that the most foppish Toreador or the most staid Tremere would n't feel awkward about whipping out in the midst of heavy rolepla ying. Digres sion: I consider the illusion of the game world to be one of the most impor tant aspects of gameplay. I'm a big fan of deep immer sion; every time a test goes of f or dice hit the table, it's a for cible reminder that you are Just Playing A Game. I like my illus ions, and I like the m with as little duct tape holding the m together as possible. That means if I have to check a rule during gameplay, I want to do so in a way that seems like part of the action. Ergo, the book that gets pulled out for that check should look like an in-play prop, somet hing my chara cter would have natur ally. That was n't the end of it, not by a long shot. The book was too long, which meant that even more material had to be cut or squeezed -Katie did heroic work shrin king headers, smoos hing sidebars and annexing borders so that everyt hing that was vital would fit. Suddenly, from what had been a jumble, the re emerged a book. For all of its flaws -and I know the book has the m, than k you it do es what it was intended to: It makes looking rules up in gameplay easier; it addre sses the concerns of the people who helped poke at it. Most of all, it's useful. And that, after all, is what I was after from the very begin ning. -the deadgiuy

## ENOCHIAN MYSTICISM by Jess Heinig

the Worldof Darknessis vast and intricatel ybal anced.Torepre sent that comple xity through liveac tion (in the coreruleb ooks like Lawsof the Night), certainelementshavetobeleftbe hind for consideratio nsof spaceorthematicinteg rity.how ever, fearnot.Pickingupwherethecorebooksleav eoff is ajobfo rthe Mind's Eye Theatre Journal.In this article, we takea looka tthe True Black Hand and the Discipl ines that are uniquely its own.(do n't worry;the powers are n't as broken as the y sound). Millenni aold, drawinginspirationfromapocaly ptic rantings and slumbe ring monstrosi ties, the

Tal'mahe'Ra-—the True Black Hand-once awaited the End

Times prophe sied in the Book of Nod. Far more succes sful than most Gehenna cults, the True Hand claimed exclu sive do minion over rare powers and myster ious secrets. the se elders infiltr ated and manipul ated Camarilla and Sabbat alike, somet imes sirnultaneo usly. the ir crusa ders hunted and killed vampires with a skill worthy of the Assamites. how ever, even the most fervent fanati cism is no equal to the destruc tion unlea shed in the Final Nights. The deaths of powerful vampires and the chaos of war has split the True Hand from its for mer contacts and all ies, for cing its for mer members to hide or be destr oyed. Crushed under the weight of centu ries and the inevitabi lity of change, the True Hand is no more, its vampires little better than the squabb ling Cainites against who m the y so recently fought and maneuv ered. Once, the True Hand sought to serve the will of the Antediluv ians. Its holdings in the Shadowl ands -the realm of the dead -lay beyond the reach of its enemies, and its careful manipulat ions and unique abili ties all owed it to control entire broods of vampires with ease. The hiera rchy of the True Hand is now disru pted, and its resou rces are scatt ered and broken. Only by integra ting the mselves into Kindred society can the True Hand's for mer members survive. (not e: The True Black Hand and its adher ents are not necessa rily suitable for all styles of play. Storytel lers should choose whether or not the y wish to acknowl edge the exist ence of the Black Hand in the ir indivi dual chroni cles. Certainly, the bloodl ines and Discipl ines prese nted here diverge consider ably from those of 'mainst ream' vampires, and can be unbalan cing. Also not e that the Nagaraja as prese nted here differ slightly from the ir tabletop incarna tion in Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand. This is an intenti onal result of updating the m to conform to the stand ards of the revised Vampire.)

## N ~q A RAJ A

Of course mankind conti nues on af t e r death, my childe. Our exist ence should be enough to prove that. But what of the others who do not share in our partic ular cursed blessing of immorta lity? Why, the y continue on as well, 1 assure you. That man the re, by the corner, is going to die in the next few nights, as a matter of fact. I am quite sure that we will see him again shortly the reafter. How can I tell? Suffice it to say, I can see such things. And yes, I can teach you as well, though you r tutelage will begin a bit differe ntly than mine. We do n't have quite so deman ding a schedule ahead of us as I did when 1 was inducted into this world. But come. We will return to this subject in time. You and I mwt dine tonight, and I hawe prepared a most succu lent repast. Do you remember the woman I pointed out to you a week ago? T h e woman who had been hawing those terrible heada ches...? The for bidden experim ents of the Tremere were not the only magical works to produce results. In the early days of the True Hand, a subsect of mages obsessed with the secrets of death and the after life bent the ir collec tive will toward understan ding vampi rism. At last, convi nced that the ir research granted the m the power to manipu late the vampiric curse to the ir own ends, the y condu cted a great ceremony to strike the life from the ir bodies and become undead for ever. The Nagaraja still exist, and the y continue to study and develop the secrets of death and what lies beyond. the ir command of necroma ntic arts is rivaled only by that of the Giovanni, and the Flesh Eaters have some secrets that not even the upstart Necroman cers have discov ered. with out the True Hand, the Nagaraja is a direction less and dying blood line; whether it survives the coming recko ning or falls to the paranoid waltz of the Jyhad remains to be seen. Clan Discipl ines: Auspex, do minate, Necrom ancy

Advantage: Instead of practi cing the for ms of Necrom ancy pione ered by the Giovanni, the Nagaraja use Vitreous Necrom ancy (somet imes called 'Nihilis tics') -a special path conce rned with the energies of death and decay. Should you r game include the additi onal Necrom ancy powers from vampire, the Nagaraja use Ash Necrom ancy and are capable of learning Vitreous Necrom ancy after attai ning exper tise to an Intermed iate level. Otherwise, use Vitreous Necrom ancy as the ir primary Necrom ancy path, giving the m access to unusual abili ties unknown to other clans and bloodl ines. Because of the ir sensiti vity to the energies of the dead, Nagaraja can automatic ally sense the presence of any wraiths in the ir vicinity (about lofeet), although the y can not necessa rily see or identify partic ular wraiths (at least, not with out Ash Necroman cyor the Merits: Ghosts ight or Speaker with the Dead). Disadvan tage: In addition to drinking blood, the Nagaraja must consume human flesh. A Nagaraja must devour two health levels' worth of flesh each day, prefer ably fresh. A normal human corpse is consid ered to have three servings of 'the other white meat.' Vampiric flesh will not do, as it rots and decays once it is devoured. ANagaraja who fails to 'get his pound of flesW'gains the Negative Trait: Sickly for eachn ight of fasting; the se Traits disap pear ifthe Nagarajal ater consumes additi onal flesh (one serving for each Trait). Nagaraja have no special capacity for eating food other than raw flesh, unless the y take the Merit: Eat Food. ## I N C L U D I N C ~ T H E NAC~ARAJAIN you R CHRONICLE

As a blood line of perhaps adozen members from avamp iric society now nearly destr oyed, the Nagaraja would seem to have limited poten tial for use as charac ters. With the extent of the True Hand's influ ence in vampiric society, though, such is hardly the case. Agents of the True Hand from almost all clans infilt rate various

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL levels of the Camarilla and Sabbat, and even in the wake of recent uphea vals, the y continue to advance the ir own schemes while hiding with in the other sects. for midable necroma ntic prowess combines with the wisdomofg reat age tomake the Nagaraja cunning and dange rous adversa ries. Obviously, other necroman cers are the most likely to know of the Nagaraja; the Giovanni family in partic ular consi ders the Nagaraja a nuisance, but still casts a jealous eye toward the blood line's secrets. For the ir part, the Nagaraja take an interest in the larger movem ents of Kindred society. Any seemi ngly insignifi cant polit ical or social change with in either Camarilla or Sabbat could conceal the maneu vers of the ancients; such chess matches draw the atten tion of the True Hand and its members. with out the safety of any secure have n or widesp read all ies, the Nagaraja must travel where the ir studies and needs take the m -and so one or even two may appear just about anywhere, if only briefly. Due to the ir scarcity, Nagaraja should n't arrive in a chron icle in droves. Rather, the y are harbin gers of terrible portents, for eshado wing the schemes of ancient vampires playing in the Jyhad. Too much an unknown quantity to be actively persec uted, the Nagaraja are largely an enigma to the more common clans. Possible ideas for adding Nagaraja to you r chron icle include: - Nagaraja follow up on hidden or lost necroma ntic secrets with an almost relig ious fanati cism. A chara cter uneart hing an unusual bit of occult lore may attract the atten tion of a Nagaraja. - The movem ents of the ancients always draw the atten tion of the Tal'mahe'Ra. A Nagaraja agent may use his necroma ntic abili ties to investi gate unusual conspira cies or hidden influ ence in a city. - Since veryfew Nagaraja exist-and as the y are not exactly prote cted by the shelte ring arms of the Camarilla or Sabbat -it makes sense for the m to seek out places to hide, or all ies on who m the y can depend. A single Nosferatu contact or a Brujah bodyg uard can go a long way toward making unlife safer and more produc tive, and the Nagaraja are n't above making such contacts surreptitio usly. - With the ir small blood line size, Embracing poten tial recruits seems like a valid strategy for Nagaraja. Of course, educa ting a brand-new vampire and teaching her to avoid not ice, unearth the secrets of unlife and defend against poten tial threats is a risky underta king, so the Nagaraja seek out only the most talented and intelli gent recruits. A mentor-student team might seek shelter with a small group of neonates or ancillae, so that the fledg ling Flesh Eater can adjust to her new condi tion in relative security. ## VI T R E o u s NE c R o M A N CY

The for bidding workings of Vitreous Necrom ancy can be used to sense and manipu late the dark energies of entropy, decay and death. for merly called 'Nihilis tics,' this type of Necrom ancy is pract iced almost exclusi vely by the now-vanished Nagaraja blood line. Other necroman cers would give much to unearth this Discip line's secrets, for it is a powerful adjunct to the ability to control the Restless. Its true capabili ties, how ever, lie buried with its makers in the realm of the True Black Hand. ## BASIC

## Eyes of the Dead

Tapping into the flow of death energy, you can see through the eyes of any wraiths who happen to be around you. By exami ning auras with the ghostly sight of the dead, you can deter mine relative states of health, decay and injury. System: You must expend a Mental Trait to use this power. Once activ ated, you are capable of using a wraith's Deaths ight for the remai nder of the scene, or until you pull you r percept ions back into you r ownbcdy (you r normals ight is coopted by this power). Y o u see from the wraith's perspec tive, all owing you to view the decaying architec ture of the Underw orld. By looking at a person or object, you can deter mine i f the subject is damaged or diseased. You can a l s o see the ebb and flow of baleful magic (curses and binding enchantm ents). ## Hour of Death

Like Eyes of the Dead, this power lets you see with the percept ions of a wraith. You can pick out auras using you r own vision, and see the telltale marks of death on all things. System: Activa ting this power calls for the expendi ture of a Mental Trait. Like Eyes of the Dead, you can deter mine injury and disease with this power, simply with you r normal sight (instead of borro wing a wraith's vision). You may be able to tell if a subject is about to die -if a chara cter is dying, you may ask a Narrator how long the subject has to live (as determ ined by the target's remai ning Physical Traits). You can also disting uish between diffe rent for ms of entropy, so you can tell the relative power of various curses and harmful spells. ## I N T E R M E D I A T E

## Soul Judgment

Tapping into the Beast that resides even in ghosts, you can sense a wraith's dark passions, the emotions that give it strength but also feed its hatred of the living. You can deter mine whether a wraith is in the thrall of its Beast (called the 'Shadow'), all owing you to plan you r dealings accordi ngly. Since many wraiths are unaware of what the ir Beasts do while in control, this power all ows you to bargain with the m in ways that may not be immedia tely apparent. System: You must expend a will power Trait and make a Mental Challenge with the wraith in question in or der to deter mine whether its higher self, or 'Psyche,' has been overri dden by its Shadow. This power also all ows you to deter mine whether the wraith is routi nely do minated by its Shadow; such wraiths are called Spectres and are exceedi ngly dange rous. ## Breath of than atos

Drawing entropic energy out of you r own dead body, you can breathe a fine, invis ible mist of death over an are a. This energy settles like a seething cloud that attracts the atten tion of malefic spirits. System: You must expend a Blood Trait and make a Simple Test (win or tie) to exhale the Breathof Thunutos. Ifsucces sful, you can cause the ghostly cloud to settle over an are a around you; Spectres will come to this are a, very likely to harass anyone with in. Alterna tely, you may breathe the mist at an indivi dual (requi ring a Mental Challenge to direct the gases successf ully). In this case, the victim suffers one health level of aggravatedda mage and is affli cted with the Negative Social Traits: Repugnant x2 for the remai nder of the evening; the energies give the victim an eerie, pallid aura. Also, such a victim regis ters as tainted by Oblivion and Wyrm-energies. Multiple uses of this Discip line in the same evening are not cumula tive on any one victim. ## ADVANCED Soul Feasting

This puissant power all ows you to liter ally drain the energy of ghosts and the dead, absor bing it for you rownpurp oses. you can the nuse this energy tofuel you r undeadpo wers. ## MIND'SEYE the ATRE JOURNAL

System: You must expend a will power Trait to activate this power for the duration of a conflict. You can attack wraiths with you r bite, just as if feeding normally. If you manage to bite successf ully (with a Physical Challenge), you r fangs penet rate into the Underw orld and all ow you to devour the wraith's energy -each Corpus level (health level) stolen in this fashion gives you one Trait of Entropy. (If you 'drink the wraith dry' in this fashion, the unlucky spirit falls into a Destruc tion Harrowing.) Alterna tely, you may simply draw entropy from you r surround ings, if you are in a cemetery, Haunt or other place of the dead; in this case, you gain one Entropy Trait for each Mental Trait that you expend, up to three Traits total from any given are a. the se Entropy Traits may the n be used to power Discipl ines in the place of Blood Traits, although the y can not be used for any other funct ions common to Blood Traits (such as healing, reviving someone from torpor or impro ving Physical Traits). Entropy Traits gained with this power last throug hout the evening, until spent. ## TRUE BRUJAH

Ifinditmostinerig uing, really, that moreo fthe Rubbledon't knowabo utus. Troile was so proud of h i s victory over our father, and the you nger ones haw such a time control ling the melves that it would seem obvious that those of Troile's line would b e diffe rent. It seem that the self-procla imed scholars should be ab l e to make the connec tion easily enough and hypot hesi Te our exist ence, at least. But the you ng one I... questi oned... had never heard of mybrother sandI. Hekeptinsis ting(evenwhen Iap~liedw hite-hotbra~ tohim) that he was a 'true Brujuh. ' He honestly did not see the differ ence between himsel fand I. But he will learn soon enough, I suppose. He waits now in the hopes that the coming of day will let him escape It's of no consequ ence, ultima tely. I have an eternity of night to convince him other wise. the n I can get buck to my real studies. According to the legends of the Kindred, the Brujah clan hails from the lineage of Troile, an upstart who diabler ized the or iginal Brujah Antedilu vian. Though Troile stole the ancient's power, he failed to usurp the entirety of the blood line, and to this day several very old and very cunning descend ants of the or iginal Antedilu vian are rumored to exist. Following the tradi tion of scholar ship handed do wn through the ir blood line, the survi vors' logical minds and keen intell ects focused on the acquisi tion of knowl edge and the finer points of philos ophy; the ir calm, rational natures led to a reputa tion as legen dary thinkers and keepers of wisdom. In addition to this wisdom, the True Brujah honed a keen sense of percep tion, leading the m to develop unparall eled polit ical machinat ions and an uncannv sense of history. or iginally founding members of the True Black Hand, the True Bruj ah -if, indeed, any remain -are said to control the percept ions of time and even, among the eldest, the currents of the ages. A keen grasp of philos ophy makes for a well-honed mind, but not necessa rily an understan ding or moral one. Indeed, the True Brujah as a who le left behind human morality centu ries before. In the ir quest for knowl edge and the ir search for perfec tion of the mind, the y delved into much for bidden lore. Bent to the purity of develo ping Platonic ideals, the y did not recog nize the dangers of consor ting with infernal ists, and the y welcomed rites and sacram ents most foul. With the patience of times ight and a drive unfett ered by emotions or morality, the True Brujah brought about the ir own do om at Carthage and other places. Even when for ming the True Black Hand, the y refused to rectify the ir errors, and the ir demonic taint and ties conti nued to infect the m -and still do in modern nights. Having fled the destruc tion of the ir sect, what True Brujah remain would presum ably be solitary and indepen dent figures, weighted by powerful blood and centu ries of age. Beyond venge ance, petty politics or material concerns, the se introspec tive Cainites have only the ir shared thirst for knowl edge left. If any survive, the y are surely ensco nced in the furthest comers of the world, studying esoteric works beyond the ken of mankind or you nger vampires. Clan Discipl ines: Potence, Presence, Temporis

Advantage: True Brujah are exceedi ngly contro lled and unemoti onal. Devoid of passion, the y find it easy to resist the ravages of frenzy, as the y are not easily moved to displays of rage or terror. A True Brujah always gains one free test to attempt to avoid frenzy (gener ally at the standard Trait diffic ulty), even with out expen ding a will power Trait. True Brujah also gain a single retest against powers or Discipl ines that would incite frenzy in lesser vampires. Disadvan tage: Because of the ir detach ment and coldness, True Brujah have diffic ulty holding to moral or philosoph ical concerns. To the m, such abstract ions are intellec tual exerc ises, not hing more. True Brujah are likely to gain Beast or Path Traits as a result of the ir inabi lity to hold to a system of beliefs. Any time that a True Brujah would be called upon to test for a new Beast or Path Trait, the player must make two tests and take the worst result. If astoryte ller decides to assign anew Beast or Path Trait with out a test, the player should make one Simple Test; failure indic ates that the chara cter gains two Beast or Path Traits instead of just one. ## I N C L U D I N ~ T H E TRUE BRUJAH I N Y O U R CHRONICLE

Time and contempla tion weigh heavily on the True Brujah. Determ ined to reclaim the ir stolen destiny from the brood of Troile, the y weave convol uted and long-running plots to take revenge for the ir losses. Though slow to anger, the ir fury is as bound less as any vampire's when the y are roused. The appear ance of a True Brujah is not somet hing publicly bandied about. Indeed, most Kindred are comple tely unaware of the exist ence of the blood line proper. Generally, a True Brujahmasquerad esas a Ventrueor Lasombrawhenassocia ting with Camarilla or Sabbat groups, relying on age and experi ence to dissuade investiga tion into the truth. After all, with the ir history at Carthage and the ir supposed betrayal by Troile, the y are quite experie nced in decep tion and hidden warfare. For the most part, True Brujah are histor ical scholars, antiqu ated relics of a bygone age who mull over much philos ophy but rarely act. The days of the blood line's promin ence -if, indeed, the y ever truly were the basis of the Brujah clan -are long gone, and the y now concern the mselves with memories of the past. As a result, True Brujah of ten cloister the mselves from all but a few Kindred, seeking memories of the ir for mer glory or the sleep of ages. Only a rare few actively involve the mselves in the present, and even the y are hard pressed to keep up with the constant changes of the frighte ning modem age. Whether or not the coming Final Nights will rouse the True Brujah to action -or lead to the ir ultimate destruc tion -remains to be seen. Possible ideas for adding True Brujah to a chron icle include: - With the ir time senses, True Brujah of ten have a good idea of impor tant places in the unfol ding of history. The ebb and tide of unusual events can draw a True Brujah to investi gate. - With the ir schola stic knowl edge and long history, True Brujahare always in search of new discove ries. When a piece of arcane lore i s unear thed in a partic ular chron icle, a

System: No chall enge or expendi ture is neces sary to use this Discip line; once a practiti oner becomes familiar with the ebb and flow of time, its rhythms are always apparent. ## Ramble On

By affec ting a subject's sense of the passage of time, you can for ce the indivi dual to continue perfor ming a partic ular action. The victim is entra nced, carrying on his action long after he intended to stop. An indivi dual taking a walk, for instance, conti nues walking even after he has overshot his destina tion; a victim trying to run away becomes so intent upon fleeing that he keeps trying to run even after he has been captured. System: You must make a Social Challenge against the target to use this power. Once activ ated, the subject automatic ally attempts to repeat the same action perfo rmed in the current turn in the next turn. Thus, in the next turn, the victim repeats what he was do ing previo usly, as long as the action is repeat able. A chara cter who picks up a book, for instance, can not be made to try to pick up the same book once he's already holding it; in the presence of several books, though, he could be made to pick up an additi onal book. ## I N T F R M E D I A T F Zombie's Curse

Warping a target's percep tion of time, you can make the victim take longer to do anything. The subject slows do wn, moving as if smoth ered in molasses, and he has diffic ulty reacting to things happe ning at 'normal speed.'

System: You must engage in a Social Challenge with you r victim in or der to affect her percep tion of time. If succes sful, the subject is slowed for the next 15 seconds (four turns). A slowed victim may still use weapons and powers, but her actions always come after everyone else's, and she may have diffic ulty in combat. The slowed target suffers from the Negative Traits: Clumsy x2 due to dulled react ions. ## Cowalker

Blinking outside of time, you can move briefly between ticks of the clock. A conce rted for ce of will all ows you to step beyond the bounds of normal time, so that you are able to act while the world is frozen around you. System: Expend a will power Trait to step betweensec onds, and you are able to take one action (and only one, with out any enhancem ents from Ceknty or other powers) between turns. You can not affect anything else that is frozen in time -thus, you could battle another indivi dual who i s also using this power, but you can not open a do or, punch someone or turn on a light. In effect, you are free to move for one turn -gener ally, to a distance of three steps. how ever, if you can get out of reach of you r opponent or find a suitable hiding place, you may be able to use this power for a Fair Escape. You can also attack from surprise by using this power in combat, at least the first time you 'blink.'

## ADVANCED

## Frozen Object

You can liter ally warp the fabric of time around an object, causing it to exist in a pocket outside the flow of the seconds. Such an object retains any energy or proper ties that it had when frozen, but it can not be affected by interact ions from:he normal time stream. As a result, you can throw a knife and the n leave it in midiir, or halt time for a grenade thrown at you long enough to escape. System: An object may be frozen for up to 15 seconds (four turns) of normal time. You must decide how long to freeze the object when halting it. Although you do not need to touch the item, you must be able to see it, and it can not be in the posses sion of another indivi dual. the refore, you can freeze a knife, a bomb or a falling object, but unless you have some means of seeing a bullet (such as by stepping outside time with the Cowalker power), you can not affect it. Frozen objects retain the ir energy but can not interact with the physical world; thus, a thrown knife resumes flying once this power elapses, but it can not be plucked from the air while frozen. Activa ting this Discip line requires the expendi ture of one Physical Trait. ## MASTER

Control Aging

You can alter the effects of time upon a partic ular subject. With a touch, you can rapidly speed up, slow do wn or even reverse the accumula tion of time in you r target. System: You must grasp you r target physic ally in or der to control time's effects upon it; this may require al'hysical Challenge in the case of unwil ling subjects. The object can be no larger than roughly man-sized -gener ally, 500 pounds or so is the upper limit. You must the n expend one Physical Trait for each decade that you wish to add to or subtract from the victim's age. not e that vampires altered chronologic ally with this power do not undergo physical changes (the y are immune to the ravages of time), but may suffer supernat ural difficul ties (such as inabi lity to gain susten ance from the blood of animals or even humans). Once this power is used on a given indivi dual, it may not be used again on the same subject in the same game session. ## do main of Evernight

By dilating the perce ived flow of time around you rself, you can make it appear that time has sped up incred ibly. Everyone in the are a -inclu ding you -experie nces a highly altered flow of time. This power can be used to great effect when defen ding a have n, by causing night to come with rapidity or by exposing vampiric foes to daylight. System: This power affects only a single room at a time. You must win a Static Mental Challenge (diffic ulty seven Traits) to cause one hour of time to pass in the space of a single turn (about five seconds of real time or so, when not in combat). You must have a Narrator present in or der to use this power; all events in the given room are taken 'out of location' as the are a steps outside of the normal time stream. Those who step into the are a are immedia tely included in the perceptiondistor ting effects. If a room is affected with this power, those inside can not return to the normal flow of the game until outside time 'catches up' with the ir perce ived time frame. For example, if Laocrines the True Brujah activ ates this power in a side room at seven o'clock, he can make a Mental Challenge to cause everyone in the are a to experiencedil ated time for an hour (althoughsubjecti vely the inhabit ants of the room experi ence only a single turn). No one who enters the room or is in the are a of effect can leave the room until eight o'clock outside. Due to the poten tial disruptive ness of this power (possibly causing several players to wait for an hour or more before retur ning to play), Storytel lers should exercise extreme caution in all owing its use in the ir games. e

White Wolf's of fictal Fan Club

## Ce Camaritla

The midnigbt danceconti nues: do n't get leftbe hind! partici pate in Mind's eye the atre osyou never have before. Join achron icle that spans the globe from romanticp oris roglitzy tos Angeles. As a member.you will receive: - The quorterlynati onal newsle tter, Bequiem
- ·A 2o% discount on products when you or der directly from white wolf
- An of fieiol member ship cord and amemberhand book ro join, please send $zo.oo to: The camar illo pO B0827974 salt Lakecitu, utah84127-0974 camstuffovam pire.tamu.edu www.camor illa.or g
- Access to ploy in ashared worldof parkness Mind's eye the atre chron icle. Miondsmis bent liasnyeanfaeteaeerunaaega tfah

## CBe Camaritla

White Wolf x of feal Fan Club

## PUMONCA EOR WYLD W€ST FRONTIER FELINES: by Jess Heinig

The Nuwisha and the Cmax are n't the only newco mers to Mind's Eye st. Enter the Bastet. Lithe, the atre with the advent of Law gracefu land utterly feroc ious, the yembody Gaiascuriosit yand sensua lity.And of the m, the Pumonca best embody the spirit of the American Savage West. The Pure Lands have b the se hardy loners hav the arrival of the Wyr warriors, the Pum Storm Umbra and ters and relent less line cousins of the mille nnia.Spread across the plains, swamps and mount ains of the frontier, Native American tribes, and the y are dange rous foes to the arrogant European Garou. Srubbombut hard-working, the Storm Walkersarefearsomeprotec tors of the American heartl ands.Bound to the earth in spirit and in fact, the y wander across the entire conti nent, living out the brutal seasons through sheer endur ance.Techno logy and magic alike hold no draw for the m;the Pumonca survive upon the merits of the ir ownphys ical prowess and skills. It is not until the 1880s united face to protect the ir lands Despitetheirphysicalresilienceanddetermina tion, though, the Pumonca fall beforethesett lers from acrosstheo cean.with outthepowerfulmagicso fthe Europeanwo lves, the ycannot combat the Gifts and rituals of the othershif ters. together for amysticalreb irth.From this spiri tual awake ning, the Pumonca from the depredat ions of Wyrm-creat ures and wolves alike. ## BASTFT BASICS

Bastet charac ters in Mind's Eye Theatre games share many similari ties with their wolfcou sins-and they usethesameformatfor charactercrea tion —but the big cats do have some pointed differe nces. - ·Bastet have and use Rage, Gnosis and will power just as Garou do, except asnoted otherwi sein the follo wing text. - ·Each of the Bastet tribes has its own supernat ural for ms.Unlike the Garou, the diffe rent tribes tend to take on diffe rent characteris tics when shifting, sothe Crinosformofapartic ular Bastetmaydiff erin Traitsfro mthe Crinosfor mofa Garou, or evenfrom that ofa Bastetf roma differentt ribe. - Bastet can not step sideways natur ally. Only through the use of a special Intermed iate Gift (Walking Between Worlds) -or if the y are with in the ir Den-Realm -can the y enter the Umbra as do Garou. r
- Bastet never have the Backgro unds: Past Life or Totem. - A Bastet's initial Rage and will power Traits are iboth based upon her tribe; - a representa tion of the ir re and Demeanor Archet ypes). - rious effects of that metal listed ·Bastet can regene rate just like Garou.the y also take aggrav ated damage in Lawsof the Wyld West-defendingwithonly half Physical Traits, and soon. - y. when ever a Bastet est. Failure (a loss, but ly, changing one for m or until the scene ends). m to another -a lent of Glabro) and the nbackto Homid. - Each Bastet tribe has three Yava.the Yava are tribal secrets that may or may not be true.Regard less, the se secrets impact the tribe heavily；any outsider who learnst hese Yavacanfigh tthe Bastetmoreeffecti vely.Each Yava that anindivi dual learns is good for twobonus Traits onall challe nges against Bastetoftheappropr iate tribe.Yava can not be extra cted for cibly from a Bastetwithm agic;the chara cter mustvolunta rily decide to give up the secrets.Bastet cubs who do not show the wisdomneces sary toguard the tribal secret sare simplyn ever taught any Yava. - the ir own inter-tribal lex messages require Ho ·Just as the Garou have the ir own tongue, the Bastet speak Kheuar(kew-
- derived from the ir whiskers, for the purposes of negating pe only one penalty Trait in darkness, where as most creat ures incur a two-Trait penalty.this sensedoesnotfuncti onin Homid for manddoesnotallo wthe Bastet to detect supernaturallyhi dden creat ures (like Obfusc ated vampires). - Bastet heal and regene rate just like Garou. - Bastet have some special Gifts and Backgroun
- Bastet have homid, metis and feline breeds, corres homid, metis and lupus breeds of the Garou. the se breeds same fashion as for Garou, except that all Bastet start with Gnosisd ueto the irinnatespiritua lity.Also, the starting Giftsavailablebybree dare: - ·Since Bastet do not have Auspices, the y do n't start with an Auspice Gift. Instead, the ystartwit hone Breed Giftan done Tribe Giftaswel lasa General Gift. Homid: Cat Claws, Sweet Hunter's Smile

Metis: Create Element, Sense Pnml Nature

Feline: Mark as Mine, Kitten's Cry

## PYRIO

Pyrio must be diffe rent than his Nature or Demeanor (some Bastet are straightfor ward and honest about the face the y show the world), but the se diffe rent levels of identity Bastet Pyrioaremainly roleplayingt ools, astheyreflec tthe Bastet'struena ture, beneatheve nthe Natureand Demeanor Archet ypes.This is not tosay that a Bastet's

| Rank | Title | |
| 1 | Tekhmet | |
| 2 | Aka | |
| 3 | Tilau | |
| 4 | Ilani | 20 |
| 5 | Bon Bhat | 25 |

## BASTET BACKGROUNDS eritage, Bastet have access to some Backgro unds that are arou. In addition to many of the Backgro unds descr ibed in a Bastet can choose from Den-Realm, Jamuk and Trinket. ## DEN-REALM

sedisas ters and attacks, and you can r insta ntly at a cost of one Gnosis (but A Den-Realmisan are a of terri tory marked and claimed bya Bastet.with in a Den-Realm, you can Step Sideways(subject to the normal limitat ions imposed upon Garou, but with outareflec tive surface), you can peek into or out of the only oncepers cene).Alsa, you canalwaysfind your Den-Realm, nomatterw here you are; and by touch, you can rakepe ople with you into the Umbra if you step sideways(if the subject is will ing). the number of Traits expende dfor the Backgr ound determ ines the sizeof the Den-Realm. One Trait:A small house. Two Traits:A large manor. Three Traits:A full block, about five squarem iles. Four Traits: Two square blocks; about 10 square miles. Five Traits: Five square blocks: about 20 square miles

Storytel lers can choose to limit use of this Backgr ound, since itcan givea Bastetlargeamountsofcontrolovermuchofa game are a.Also, charactersm aybe requiredtoperformaspe cial Riteorquesttosec urea Den-Realm, insteadofsi mply purcha sing one at the outset of play. ## JAMAK with this Backgr ound totem: It works for th Unlike Garou, who runnp acks and take totem spirits as patron sfor the ir Bastet and the totem may "part ways'and the plaver can the n trade the levels in this Backgr ound to gain a new and diffe rent Jamak at a latet date (although this certa inly requires a quest or story relating to the disco very and bonding of a new spiritualme ntor).Generally, a Jamaksa small, Gaffling-level ncarnati onof a largersp irit, and soeachamakhasitownpersonalnameinsteadofsimpl ybin "Bear"or"Unicorn."

Buying a Jamuk is just like pur must pay all of the associ ated poin

## TRINKET

Bastet tend to pick up curious characte rhas discov ered somethingwithmagicalpo wers.This.could be amagical Talisman or a spiri tual Fetish;what ever the caseits full powers and potencie sare determ ined by the Storyte ller.Since Bastet of tendabbleinmagicsunk nown to the Garou, it'spossiblefortheobjecttohavesomestartlingpowersunknow nfor most Fetishes. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL etish Backgr ound, but the outside the realm of spirits shoots fire, summons rats. Storytellercanchoosetogivetheob ject sorce rous powersorotherabilitiesnorm ally

## S O R C ~ R Y A N D

Intenselymysticalreat ures, Bastetfindthattheycansometimeslearnsor cery and wizardry pract iced bymor tals.It's unusual and taxing, but it do eshappen. dy said that learning the hidden myste ries was easy.... the Pumonca are particul arly unlikely to ever develop sorcery—it's simply an are aof power for which theyhavenoinclina tion.should a Bastet unearth the means and motivestodevelopsorcerouspo wers, though, the playermaypurchasesor cery paths from Lawsof the Hunt.of course, suchpurch ases are subjecttotheusualr ules for shifters and outsi ders learning sorcery:The player must expend33% more Experi ence Traitso nall purch ases(four Traitsfor Basicle vels, eightfor Intermedi-

## BASTET BREED GIFTS

## HOMID GIFTS

Basic
- for ms. do ing so costs of the scene, or until normally, inflic ting a l o o k quite unusual in Negative Physical Trait: Sokto for ms, and thus cause you to suffer the ·Cat Claws:you are able to unsheatheyourc laws even in Homidor Sokto
- ·Eavesdro pper's Ear:you r sensi tive ears are privy to whispers and distant conversat ions Withtheexpenditur eofa Mental Trait, you areab leto liste ninn dista ntor quietconversat ions (cupyour hand next to you rear toindicat euse of this Gift).this Gift lastsfor the durati onof the scene, and may causeyouproble msif you suddenly findyour self expos edto loudno ises. - Jam Gun: This funct ions j of the Wyld West. - Sweet Hunter's Smile: Yo you r cat-like charms. By expendin additi onal Social Traits:Magneticx2or Intimidat ingx2(you rchoice).the se Traits can beused up just like any other Social Trait. ## Intermed iate
- nderstand able for m or into unintelligiblegibbe rish.you mustexp enda Social Trait to activate this Gift, which the nworks on any language(evenwri tten ones).Everyonewi thin50feet (gener ally, with in the sameroon)is affected;you can choosetoc ause everyo neto becomprehensib leor tomak eall cormunicationworthles sfor oneturm. - Crafto fthe Maker:Seethe Giff:Reshape Object, n Lawsof the Wildpage93. - f you r for ms all ows you to alter you r mid for m to look like any sort of human.you must expend a Social Trait inorder to use this Gift;you the n assume any human appear ance desired.You should wear a special card toindi cate this change, and beings with supernat ural senses may attempt to detect you r change (though the y can not see you r true for m) by makinga Menta1 Challenge against you. ## Advanced
- ows you to destroy food, drink and letely toxic and spoiled. arable land. You render any co arabi lity of a square mi food is rendered rotten You must expend a perma nent Rage Trait to invoke this Gift;you the n completelydes troy the valueofaquantityofw ater up tothesizeofas mall lake, the before retur ning to a clean and usable state (through the bounty of Gaia's renewal). not e that Bastetusing this Giftcannotrever seit, and the ysuffer the depredatio nsof itseff ects;Bastet can bepoison edby spoiled supplies just like anyone else. ## METIS C~IETS Basic
- Blinding Moonbea no excep tion. You can caus must win or tie a Simple Test of moonl ight all owing you to s eyes generate beams tsforone turn. With succes sful challen a Physical Challenge, you can blind anoppo nent, causing him to sufferpenal ties
- Create Element:See Laws of the Wild, page94. - ait. You gain total percep tion of everyt hing with in 10 you make a Mental Challenge to not ice hidden or ·Whisker Sight:By attuning you r senses to the gentlevibrat ions detected by you rwhiskersyoucan feel out you rsurround ings even when unablet osee.You invis ible objects, althoughinsubstan tial creat ures or things(likewra iths）remain beyond your percept ions.This senserem oves all penal ties for fighting in darkness, and lastsforas cene, - ·Sense Primal Nature:Like Gifts that all ow the Changing Breeds to sense the presenceo fthe Wyrm, Bastet Giftsenablethemtodetectthetou chof Rahjah, Nala or Cahlash(Weaver, Wyld or Wyrm, respecti vely）.See Sense Wyrm, in Laws of the Wild onpage94, but a Bastetcan sensewhe ther a partic ular object, place or creature has an affinity for any one of the threemem bers of the Triat.If a testiscalle dfor, the difficultyi sone Traithigherthanu sual dueto this Giftsless discerningna ture. ## Intermed iate
- smites matter and wounds foes. With growl, you can make a test of you r perma nent Rage againsta diffic ulty of six Traits(for inani mate objects)or eight Traits (for creat ures).If you succeed, you r target is destr oyed(if anobject of10 poundswe ight or less) or suffers one Health level of aggrav ated damage(if a creature).This Gift has noeffect on spirits or ghosts of any kind. - of the moon at night (only), you can opena Moon Bridgebri efly.the gatewaytakestheformofaswi rlof silver yfog, and any travelerho ping touseit must stepinbefo reit dispe rses.You must expend one

## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL

Gnosis Trait to create the gateway, and make a Static Mental Challenge with a diffic ulty depen dent upon you r familia rity with the destina tion -five Traits for you r own home, 20 or more for an unknown place or otherwsr ldly Realm. You may travel upto10Omilesfor each Gnosis Traitexpendedintheformati onof the gate. Failure to for m the gate properly causes it to not function at all. - Redeem the Wa you lend it some of y are as that have beendef iled.By sniffing about and attuningyour self to the land, and makea Simple Test.ffyouwinortieyoumanagetocauseonesquare half-mile of despo iled landtobeginhea ling.Barrenlandsbe come fertileandpl ague-ridden plants grow again.This removes any sort of taint or poisons, curing the land permane ntly unless it is despo iled again at a later time. - strike across the Gauntlet!with the Spirit-Touch Gift, you maytouchorstrikebeingsontheo ther sideof the Gauntlet-—soyou can remain in the physical worldw hile attack inga victimi nthe Umbra, for example.Todoso, you mustfirstwinor tiea Simple Test and the nmake your normal chall enge.this power all owsyouto attackspi rits or Umbral enemies, or to strike from the Umbra atyour foes inthemate rial word. ## Advanced
- Moon Sense: You can extend extrasen sory powers of Clairvoy ance tant places as with the under the light of the arby and familiar locale, 1 minute of viewing costs can react if you are discov ered effects end insta ntly. moon can be seen asyou gaze into a pool of still water.you must expenda Gnosis Trait to activate this power, and the nmake a Static Mental Challenge with a another Gnosis Trait.Torepre sent this Gift, you need the assistanc eofa Narrator; gener ally, the Narrator should remainat your physical location(so that you canbe discov ered) whileyou go and spy on the remote place. Of course, using this Gift or attack edby someoneat your"actualphys ical location.Individuals with Auspex Mental Challenge;if succes sful, the ybecome awareofyourviewin gand the Gift's
- you whip up a terrible storm. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and three Social Traits. with in a few seconds (a turn at most), a terrifyi ngly potent storm rises, whipping about the are a and causing all manner of diffic ulty. Storytel lers may 'ons?-q a result of the storm -ranged combat e n k d powers are largely overwhe lmed. This lenge (about five minutes or less). ·Wrath of Nala: Calling upon the how ling windsof the fourcorne rsof Gaia, ## FELINEGIETS

## Basic
- use you r oppon ents. You must engage in y. If you succeed, you r you the n take the opportu nity to counterst rike), or you r target feels disposed to assist you (with healing Gifts, the assist ance of Influence, or just some kind words). This Gift do es not endear you to those who take joy in harming the weak Wyrm-creat ures and other tainted souls simply redouble the ir ferocity. - usk all ows you to mark you r ognizes the mark as the sign Mark as Mine: Treating an o terri tory and objects. Any shapes hift or der to use this Gift on any the same Gift a second time to see and remove the Gift w This Gift do es work on creature ove the mark by using of awerecat, whileothersupernaturalcreaturesareawarethatsomeso rtof for bidding sign or warding(Keep Out!) has been placed.You must expend a Gnosis Trait in
- Perfect Cover: Maki This Gift can be used only Ily conce aled -in shadows, object, you can conceal it from disco very.you must expend a Gnosis Trait and make a Simple Test(win or tie).you succeed, the object or place is hidden comple tely from mortal percept ions, and even parano rmal senses have trouble amongrub bish, halfburiedinapileofle aves and bushes.you mayuse this if tohideyour self. ## Intermed iate
- ·Ghosts at Play:Spraying musk around an are a, you can expose spirits and ghosts.you must make a Static Social Challenge(diffic ulty of the local Gauntlet).If you succeed, all spiritsandghostsinthe area(with in10feet)becomevisible fora turn. - ·Hand of Will:the powers of the will fulmind extend beyond the barriers of the physicalw orld.with you r penetrating gaze, you cantelekmetically move objects that you can see.Expend a Gnosis Trait and a Willpower Trait;you can the n move things at range. Each perma nent will power Trait that you possess grants the equiva lent of three Physical Traitsw orth of lifting power atrange, althoughyoucannotactuall yhit, crushormanipulateth ings.this telekinetic push can be exerted for one turn;each additi onal turn of telekin esis requires the expendi ture of a Willpower Trait. - Underb elly:with you rkeenpercept ions, you can spot the weakpoin tson a given foe.You must make a Mental Challenge against you r subject (diffic ulty determinedb ythe Storytellerforobj ects).Ifyousuc ceed, you maymakea Simple Test as afollow-uptyou rext succes sful strikeonawinyouscoreanaddit onal levelof damage.Usingthis Gift againstmy stic protectionrequ ires the expendi ture of a Gnosis Trait, and the Gift do esn't workon spirits of any kind. - Whisker Sight: As per the Basic Metis Gift of the same name. Advanced
- Judgment of Pestil ence: Calling upon the boons of Mother Cat and the natural winds, you can pull the ravages of disease to or away from a partic ular location. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and make a Simple Test to absorb a disease from a partic ular location. If you succeed (win or tie on the test), you can the n carry the disease, unharmed, to another location, the re to release it. If you fail, or if you carry the disease for more than a single night or day (at the next sunrise or sunset), you are overwhe lmed by the toxins and die immedia tely. ## ~ E N E R A L ~ I E T S

(not e: the se Gifts are all Basic Level. A player may choose one of the se Gifts at chara cter creation.)
- Banish Sickness: By spending a Trait of the Medicine Ability and winning a Simple Test, a Bastet can purge a subject's body of illness, disease or venom. Particul arly virulent diseases require an expendi ture of from one to three Gnosis Traits depen ding on severity. Some illne sses (such as can cer or leprosy) may even be incur able. - Catfeet: As the Basic Lupus Gift in Laws of the Wild, page 97. - Command Attention: By entering a room and making a number of Simple Testsw itha Narratore qual to the numberof Social Traitsh ehas, a Bastetmay draw on his innate sensua lity and feline presence to get the atten tion of everyone inside. Activa ting the Gift requires at least one victory (not a tie) on the Simple Tests, and ifsucces sful, the Bastet draws the immed iate attentionofever yone in the room as he enters. He also gains a Bonus Social Trait (depen dent on what effect the Bastet was hoping for when he entered the room) for every Simple Test he wins, for use in the next Social Challenge. This Bonus applies only once upon entering the room, and each Bonus Trait won must be the same. - do wsing: By pawing and sniffing around (i.e., makinga Mental Challenge), a Bastet can locate nearby water sources and deter mine whether or not said water is safe to drink. The diffic ulty of this chall enge is based on how far away the source is (it must be with in 100 feet) and how much water is present. - Lick Wounds: As the Basic the urge Gift: Mother's Touch. how ever, a Bastet can use this Gift to heal herself, and she can use the Gift as many times as she wants (at the cost of one Gnosis Trait per 'lick'). - Open Seal: As the Basic Ragabash Gift. - ·Pathfi nder's Pride: By succee ding in a Mental Challenge against a difficultybasedonthecomplexityofthesurroundingter rain, a Bastetcanmp rove hisbe tter-than-average sense of direc tion.Using this Gift, a Bastet can navigate amaze, trampoutofatropicalrainforestorworkhiswayoutofabustling city.eep in mind, how ever, that this iftonly shows the Bastetawa yout;gertingthe reis up the were cat. - ic Ahroun Gift. - ·Sense the Truth:As the Basic Philodox Gift:Truth of Gaia. - Sense Unmaker s Hand:As the Basic Metis Gife. Sense Wyem. - Silent Stalking: Callimg on the ir innate stealth and preda tory nature (and winningahys ical Challenge against five Traits), the Bastetcan stifle all sounds of erassngatwhatsufahsseraveloesotcrun chna beneat hher.this Giftdoe snot, owever, conceal the astetinanywayother than to stifle the sounds shemakes. - ·Spirit's Sight:By spending one Gnosis Trait and winninga Simple Test, a Bastetcanpeerac ross the Gauntlet Shecannotbreachthebarrierphysicall ybut using this Gift is an excel lent way to gather informa tion.This Gift lasts for one scene or until the Bastet is knocked unconsc ious. ·Treecli mber:By exten ding and sharpe ning her claws, a Bastetcanclimbnearlyanyvert ical surface.Activa ting the Gift requires a victory in a Physical Challenge against a dific ulty depende nton the nature of the surface beingcl mbed, and thecharacterm oves at approxima tely10feet per turn. ## CREATINGA PUMONCA

Asoneoftheninetrib esof Bastet, the Pumonca follo wall of the rules for Bastet charac ters shown above. the y have the ir own tribalpeculiari ties as follows: - ·APumonca starts with two Rage Traitsan dtwo Willpower Traits. - Beginning Gifts may be Mocking bird's Mirror or Wanderer's Boon. - ·The Pumonca gain diffe rent Traitsin the ir dif ferent for ms than Garou do, cord muscles and predict ably catlike features. In Sokto for m (equiva lent to Glabro), the Pumoncag ains the Traits: Ferocious, Quick and Tough, but suffers the Negative Social Trait: Bestial. In Crinos A Pumonca's Homid for mis simila rtoa Garou's, though most Pumonca have lean bodies, whipform, the Pumonca gains the Traits: Brawny, Ferocious x2, Nimble, Quick x2, Robust, Relent less and Tough x2, but suffers the Negative Social Traits: Bestial x2 and Tactless. In Chatro (great cat) for m, the Pumonca gains Ferocious x2, Quick x2 and Relent less x2, but takes the Negative Traits: Bestial x2 and Shortsig hted. In Feline (cougar) for m, the Pumonca gains Quick x2 and Tireless x2, but suffers from Bestial. ## PUMONCA YAVA
- A Pumonca is one with her land; if she leaves it for more than a full lunar cycle, she dies. - The essence of poisoned land (toxic was te, radia tion, sewage) is deadly to a puma. Immerse him in its toxins, and he will perish quickly. - All beasts fear the puma. No horse will bear him, no do g will follow him. The great cats are his kin and the y befriend him, but no other animal can approach with out terror. ## PUMONCA TRIBAL GIFTS Basic
- Mocking bird's Mirror: The simple trick of mimicry all ows the Pumonca to throw his voice anywhere, and to even imitate various sounds: people, machines, animals.This Gift all ows you tomimic sound sfor the duration of the scene;tofool someone, you mustsuccee dina Social Challenge.Ifyouattempttomimicas ound outside of you r normal vocal range.you must also spend one Gnosis Trait. - loudy day; 15 Traits for a small pocket of clouds ·Raincal ling: Calling upon beneficentw inds and storms, you can draw out rain for crops or cool of f on a hot day. Expend one Gnosis Trait and engage in a for msanda showercomes down for about10 minutes(oneconf lict).this doesnot causeanyin jury, but canputoutsomefiresand cool of fcharac ters. - or clay, and the effects are Stonework:Asper the Garou Gift:Reshape Object, in Laws of the Wild, perma nent. - entire session. ·Wanderer's Boon:This Gift is a necessit yfor the long-trave ling Pumonca. The hardened traveler ignores seasons, climate，hunger and thirst.With the

## Intermed iate
- nts, oozes and vines, by crooning to the pend a Rage Trait and a Gnosis Trait ugged x2, Tireless xi! and Tough x2, a normal no penal ties from wounds), and one level of ·Bayou Shambler:The swamps of the Southernwetl ands are home tomany and myster ious legends, and a properswampcatk nows the m all.You can call out （probablyinsuccessivet urns, since the ymaynotbespentinthe same tun), and makea Simple Test.Ifyou win or tie, you summon a foul-smellingmo rass of eachof Brawland Stealth Abilities.the swampcreatureremainsforuptofivet urns. - ith the expendi ture of a Gnosis Trait and a culty of the Gauntlet), you can summon up an Element-Folk succes sful Social Cha eleme ntal spirit for a Elemental Gift, page The eleme ntal remains for one scene, one hour or one task(which ever comesf irst). - the earth to tremble and crack. You must expend a Rage Trait and make a Social Challenge with a diffic ulty equal to twice the are a's Gauntlet. If you succeed, a natural disaster befalls everyone with in 100 feet -swamps beget quick sand, mount ains suffer rock slides, snowcaps suffer avalan ches, deserts and plains crack open and swallow of fenders. Everyone in the are a takes one health level of damage automatic ally (so this Gift probably injures just about everyone in play). ·the Hungry Earth:Rousing the ire of Mother Gaia, the Pumonca causes
- Thunder bolt: From a pact with Thunder bird, you can call a stroke of the storm out of the sky! Any cloud, how ever small, can serve as asource for this power. Spend a Rage Trait and make a Physical Challenge to hit the target; success causes the victim to be struck by light ning, scoring one level of aggrav ated damage for every two Traits of perma nent Gnosis that you possess (round do wn). ## Advanced
- Earthspea king: Whispe ring to the rocks in the ir own tongue, you can discern what has passed on the earth before. The spirits respond to a single paean. You must expend a Mental Trait to see into the past; you gain a vision or impres sion of events that happened the re before, much like the vampiric power of Spirit's Touch or mortal Psychom etry. how ever, you r vision is quite vivid and includes many compon ents of sight and sound, not just emoti onal sensa tion. Ask a Narrator for details; cats who use this Gift too of ten may find the mselves subject to unwanted emoti onal problems or Derangem ents from the recur ring inten sity of past events. - Thunder bird's Cry: As per the Metis Bastet Gift: Wrath of Nab. ## More Than Human

## More Than a Match for the Denizens of the Night

The secrets of the elusive Gypsies revealed. The complete rules for hedge magic, with Master-class sorcery. ts and mortal or ganizat ions. [ay l! sies, Laws of the NI Hunter's Tools and Mind's Eye the atre All rights reserved. 心

## "MASTER-LEVEL" THAUMATURGY RITUALS by Charles Bailey

Aquestionarosei nthe Freque ntly Asked Questions sectionofthisi ssue of the Journala bout Master-Level Thaumaturgyrit uals."what sortsof secret sorce ries are avail able,"manyhave wondered,"to those vampireswhohavededic ated the ir unlivestoattainingundisputedmastery ouer the secre tsof Thaumat urgy？Far from being inclu sive, the fol lowinglistshouldgiveyouafairideaofwheretos tart. The rituals of 'Master-Level' Thaumat urgy present some of the most arcane and confiden tial secrets of the Tremere, as opposed to a next step higher along any partic ular Thaumat urgy path. the se are taught to only the most trusted of the clan, and those who possess the se secrets are watched to ensure that said secrets do not find the ir w a y to outsi ders. For a player to purchase the se rituals, the chara cter must be of at least seventh genera tion and of excepti onal standing with House and Clan Tremere. The cost is the same as for any Master-Level Discip line, how ever this level of Thaumat urgy do es not impart any additi onal powers; it simply all ows the chara cter to learn the se closely guarded rituals. We recom mend that Storytel lers require charac ters to pursue research into the se rituals in-game (through the use of Influe nces and Abilities) to repre sent the rarity of this class of blood magic. Each ritual requires a rare compo nent that should be gained through rolepla ying; it is do ubtful that you r local Chantryw ould have, say, a Lupine skin lying around. ## RAISBTHE DEAD

Johnny Dash h a d just sunk his fangs into t h e prosti tute's neck when a hand came do wn on his should er from behind. 'Always when I'mfeeding,' he thought. He tookaquick gulp the n pulled his head back, still keeping a grip on t h e who re's hair. 'This better be good.'

'Lord Asteron requests you r presence, ' the figure behind him stated. 'Come with me. '

Johnny was about to slam-dunk the weirdo into anearby dumpster, but the name it i n v o k e d gave him pause. Asteron was one of t h e old Warlocks his sire was always mutte ring about. T h e figure steppd for ward, and Johnny saw a symbol carved or tattooed on its for ehead -that and the fact rhat most of the 'man's' h r was either white or gone, and that its eyes h a d sunk deeply beneath its do how brow. 'Hurry. After this task, I am to be released from this bondage.'

Johnny nodded and let the who re fall to her knees on the all ey floor. He did n't like the Tremere, but he unders tood one thing... freedom. If his going with this walking corpse meant its release, he was all fbr it. This ritual all ows the thaumat urge to resur rect a dead body. The corpse is not truly the same person brought back from the dead; the body merely acts as the host for a spirit that the thaumat urge coerces into inhabi ting the corpse. This exist ence is tortu rous for the spirit in question, and most spirits seek release from the bondage. Unfortuna tely, the re is no way for the spirit to become free unless the thaumat urge lifts the enchant ment, or the body decomp oses. The

Warlock most likely uses this fact as a bargai ning tool to get the spirit to do his bidding. how ever, the spirit retains its free will and it can act as it wishes. ## Requirem ents

The thaumat urge must have a cadaver with flesh still on the bones -the fresher the corpse, the longer the ritual holds the spirit. If the caster wishes the corpse to interact with the outside world, it is recomme nded that the body be less than a week old. He must brand a symbol that transl ates as 'debtor' on the corpse's for ehead, and must pour the wax from a black can dle over the heart and throat of the subject. The wax is the symbol that initi ally binds the spirit into the corpse. The room in which this ritual is perfo rmed must be comple tely devoid of light with the excep tion of the black can dle used. The entirety of the ritual must also be condu cted in a salt circle with a diameter equal to the length of the body, from head to toe. ## System

The casting chara cter should possess either Spirit Eyes (Basic Spirit Thaumat urgy) or Spirit Slave (Intermed iate Spirit Thaumat urgy) before purcha sing this ritual, as either all ows the chara cter to interact with the spirits neces sary. The chara cter must defeat the spirit in a Static Mental Challenge versus 14 Traits to successf ully coerce the spirit to enter the corpse. Once the spirit is bound into the cadaver, the thaumat urge has no firm control over the actions of the corpse, other than what is gained through rolepla ying. The corpse's initial Physical/Mental/Social Traits should be determ ined by the Storyte ller after the ritual is compl eted. The corpse posse sses the same number of health levels as a regular chara cter. the se levels can be lost to damage other than decomposi tion, and can not be healed back. how ever, the corpse is not subject to wound penal ties. At the begin ning of each game session, the thaumat urge player must engage in a Static Physical Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player loses, the corpse loses a health level due to decomposi tion. Once the corpse loses all of its health levels, the spirit is released and the ritual effect is ended. The corpse of a vampire who has suffered Final Death can not be used in this ritual. ## RITUALOP HOLDING

It was n't easy, but Yusef had finally located his target. Carvel had been missing almost half the night, but Yusef h a d not yet given up. And now he had found him, not two blocks from the target's despic able 'Chantry. ' Yusef had waited longfor the chance to spill a Tremere's blood, and now would be his chance. Stealing from his hidingp lace in the shadows of a two-story parking deck, Yusef crept up on Carvel unawares. In a burst of speed that scatt ered litter and dust in its wake, Yusef swept Carvel into a darkened all ey across the street from where he stood. The Tremere fought bneflr, but Yusef tackled him to the ground, blank eted the are a i n a heavy cloak of silence and pinned the vampire do wn with a knee on each of Carvel's slim elbows. Mouthing the words, 'Welcome the sun,' he pulled two woodenstakes from beneath his plain wool jacket. As per his or ders, h e would leave the Tremere paral yzed until the sun rose overhead. Yet, the Tremere seemed more surgnsed than afraid or wurried. with out even a shrug, Yusef plunged the first of his two stakes into the Tremere's chest. Unsurprisi ngly, the shaft exploded into hamless chips when it touched Carvel's skin. Yusef had been warned that many Tremere knew a ritual that prote cted the m from mingles take, and he had comeprep ared. Smiling, he brought the secondstakedownw here the first had disintegr ated. Let the Tremere choke on his proud faith in his rituals. Ama~ngly, the second shaft went the way of the first. Yusef sfingers closed on air, and hefalteredins hock. the hesitationwa sall Carwelne eded. Inanins tant, Yuseff ound himselfpi nned. Carvel put a handover Yusefs heart and mouthed the words, 'Welcome the Devil. ' A moment later, Carvel's eyes danced as his hand erupted in flames. This ritual enhances the effects of other rituals. The effects of this enhance ment differ accor ding to the type of ritual with which it is used. ## Requirem ents

Perfor ming this ritual adds six hours to the casting time of its partner ritual. The material compo nent of the Ritual of Holding is a solid Tgold sphere. After comple tion of the initial ritual, the thaumat urge immerses the sphere in two points of his blood and spends six hours chanting over the sphere. After that time, the sphere absorbs the blood and the second ritual is consid ered complete. Onlv one ritual may be extended by a given casting of the Ritual of Holding System

To repre sent the concentra tion required for this ritual, the chara cter must engage in a Static Mental Challenge against 14 Traits. If she loses, the Ritual of Holding fails and the re is no change to the or iginal ritual. The benefit of the Ritual of Holding is specific to the ritual with which it is used. The player may suggest the effect that she wishes to achieve, but the Storyte ller is the final autho rity as to what actually happens. Some sugge sted effects include: Blood Walk: Extends the reach of the ritual to the progeny of the target, or to those who se blood the target has tasted. Engaging the Vessel of Transfer ence: Exchanges only one Blood Trait for every two taken. Shaft of Belated Quiesc ence: Makes it imposs ible for Cleansing of the Flesh to remove the shaft. Once the effect of the ritual is decided, the Storyte ller should fill out a card detai ling the results, and give it to the player. The player and Storyte ller should discuss the effect that Holding has, and the y should conduct any tests involved in advance of the ritual. do ing so all ows the chara cter to perform the ritual during do wntime rather than miss an entire game session. ## UTTER DBSTRUCTIONOE BONDS

Here 1 am, locked in t h e back seat of a car, in the middle of the junkyard outside of town, with less than 20 minutes before dawn. I've tried all the do ors, but the y seem to be welded shut from the outside. On top of that, I'm too weak to break through any of the bullet-proof windows. 1 guess the prince was serious, after all. the re's garbage eweryw here. If 1 could just get out of this metal pnson, 1 could burrow under it a n d sleep inrela tiwe safety. As it stands, I'we got only afew minutes before Apollo's chariot breaks the hwizon and fries me alive. But I'mcalm.... I ' w e beenin tighter spots. I clear m y mindands tart chanting. T h e incanta tion i s long and complex, which i s a pain since I'm getting drowsy and I'm almost swenting blood. But t h e hardest pmtcomes last.... I do n't have a knife. For dus t o work, I h a v e to cut out m y own tongue, I e D

and that's no small trick even with a knife. So instead, I blank m y mind, grab my tongw the tip and biteitoutwi thmy teeth. lnearly blackout, but lstill have the pres~eofmindtosmear what's kftinmy hundagainrtthewi ndow. with awhoosh! and apop!, the windowexplodesoutwar dand I pile out through t h e gaping, ragged hole. Half-blind with pain and m o r, I claw m y way to t h e nearest feste ring pile of refuse and w o r m m y w a y into it, t h e rays of dawn pushing me for ward. This ritual is incred ibly powerful, yet few realize the full extent of its poten tial. The ritual, once compl eted, opens any design ated object and prevents the object from ever being closed again. ## Requirem ents

The caster utters a 10-minute incanta tion, at the end of which she removes her tongue, crushes it and smears it on the object to be opened. ## System

Removing the tongue inflicts three aggrav ated health levels of damage, and renders the chara cter unable to speak until his tongue can be grown back. Addition ally, one will power Trait must be spent for the chara cter to steel himself for the gruesome task of removing his tongue. The ritual can be used to open manacles, chests, safes, boxes, windows, do ors and eyes. If used to destroy a ward, no other can ever be placed in the same are a again. This ritual can also be used to open dimensi onal portals that are tied to objects, although Storytel lers should be very careful when all owing this applica tion of the ritual; the portal can not be closed once this ritual is used to open it. (not e: Utter Destruc tion of Bonds can not be used to break Blood Bonds or mental commands is sued with the do minate Discip line.)

## RECLAIMED TREMERE ANTITRIBU RITUALS

After the destruc tion of the Tremere antit ribu, the se rituals were discov ered and brought back to Vienna for study. the se are the first of the antit ribu rituals to be released for use with in the Tremere clan as a who le. Any chara cter who wishes to learn any of the antitriburit uals should be prepared for several months of research and rolepla ying before being able to learn even one of the m. ## CHILL O E T H E W I N D S A B E R

Valentine had tracked the Tremere d over Russia, and now, just over the burder, she found him at last. The Tremere Larian had killed Valentine's uncle -bj dl reports, he had uctuully skinned the ancient Silver Fang-and Valentine declared that she would quench her Rage with Larian's blood. She plodded through the ankk-high snow toward the cabin where Larian was reported to b e holed up. She fantasizeda bout his death screams and wondered what she would say if he begged for mercy. T h e sun h a d long since gone do wn, but Valentine wmn' t worried. If she found the cabin empty, she would simply wait ins&amp; until sunrise. when she was with inbowshotofthec abin, herearsdetectedsomethingdurin galu Uin the wind. ltsoundedlikeasmpfr mins&amp; the cabin, though Vakntineco uldn'tbesure. She pused a m n t, her tail beating a constant rhythm against her legs, and the n moved ahead again. She h a d &amp;n only a few steps when she saw the snow p a r t in front of her like the trail of an outboard mom. The disturb ance bored toward her from a cabin window and slammed into her midsec tion like a locom tive. She hit t h e ground hard and realized that she could n't feel her hind legs -which lay where she once stood. She could not even raise a how l of agony or defeat as the night sky slowly grew omino usly darker. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Chill of the Windsaber is perhaps the most contro lled of the antit ribu ritual,, and for good reason. A Tremere that posse sses this ritual has the ability to destroy an opponent from a distance with out leaving a trace of the attacker

This ritual is very tightly regul ated by the Tremere, to the extent that most of the clanstilld onot know that itexists. for a Tremere to be taught this ritual, hemust spend at least three months in Vienna where his loyalty to house and clan is tested. If he is deemed worthy, the ritual is taught to him. The penalty for teaching this ritual to anyone who has not under gone this trial is Final Death for both teacher and student. ## Require ment

Before the ritual can begin, the vampire must possess somet hing that belongs to the intended victim, such as a piece of clothing, a lock of hair or a Blood Trait. Once this item has been obtained, the vampire must spend one hour using the item to create a do ll that repres ents the intended victim. The second item required is a small piece of glass. This glass is placed on the do ll, and the cabter must spend another hour chanting over the do ll to complete the ritual. The vampire must be totally alone and undistu rbed while into ning this ritual. If his concentra tion is broken, he must begin again. To activate the ritual, the vampire must have bothdoll and glass in his posses sion (bothofwhichmu stbe inthesamecondi tion the ywerein when the ritua lwas enacted in or der to preserve the ir magical proper ties), and he must be with in 50 feet of the intended victim. The vampire points at the victim and snaps the glass. The resul ting telekin etic for ce inflicts damage -up to and inclu ding severing the target's head. ## System

The player must present the Storyte ller with an item card that repres ents a personal item of the victim's before the ritual can begin. Due to the nature of this ritual, it should not be perfo rmed during do wntime. After the ritual is compl eted, the player must make a Static Mental Challenge against 12 Traits to see if his concentra tion is broken. If the player wins, the ritual i s succes sful; if not, the ritual fails and the chara cter must start all over with a new item from the victim. To activate the ritual, the player must defeat the victim in a Mental Challenge. If the player wins the chall enge, he decides how many will power to spend to fuel the effect. For each will power spent, the victim suffers one health level of damage. If the caster spends four will power, the full effect of the ritual is imposed and the victim's head is severed from her body. ## THE GIET

'The infiltr aaon was succes sful?' the weath ered old woman asked, peenng int( recruit's soul (or so it felt). 'Yes, Excell ency,' the you ng Assamite nodded. 'And I returned with the boa the one you asked for. '

'Most amanng, Ramhi,' the old woman sad, as if she had sad t h e same worc count less other recruits ame and again. 'You are to be rewarded most handso mely. I rt that 1 can not of fer you you r target's blood-'

Ramsh murmured. 'By you r grace, Excell ency,'

'-but 1 can make you r night-hunting easier.' Turning to a do or recessed ir adobe wall behind her, the old woman called out, 'Malakai~'

Moments later, a dark-skinned man dressed in schol arly robes that had gone out of fashion centunes ago appeared through the do or. 'Yes, Excell ency,' he sad quietly. 'My studies proceed slowly now that Brother Raintree has disappe ared.'

'You will take Ramshi to you r chamber and bestow upon h z m the benefit of you r supernat ural senses,' the old woman said, ignonng Malakai's quiet protest. Ramshz tned not to break out in a proud smile. Malakui's should ers slumped m a gesture that would have been a sigh if Malakai still breathed. 'By you r command, Excell ency '

This ritual all ows the thaumat urge to transfer his Discipl ines to another, through a laying on of hands. The exact Discipl ines and number are up to the thaumat urge. This ritual was of ten used as a for m of reward for service among the antttnbu. ## Requirem ents

The material compo nent of this ritual is a silver mirror, a Trait of the caster's blood and one Trait of the recip ient's blood. The caster mixes the blood Traits together and writes the name of the Discipl ines she wishes to transfer onto the surface of the mirror. Once this is compl eted, both parties touch the mirror for the prescr ibed time. ## System

The ritual requires 15 minutes of contact per Discip line transfe rred. The Tremere player must succeed in a Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If she wins, the chara cter trans fers exactly the amount of the Discip line she intended. If the player ties, the caster trans fers less than intended; if the player fails, the caster trans fers more than intended. In either case, it is up to the Storyte ller to be the final arbiter of exactly how much of the intended Discip line is transfe rred. You may not use this ritual to give a chara cter a level of a Discip line that he could not normally achieve. In other words, you can not use the ritual to give a 13th-genera tion vampire a Master-Level Discip line. The transfer of Discipl ines affects the do nor and recip ient in the follo wing way: The do nor looses Discipl ines from the highest level do wn, and the recip ient gains Discipl ines from the lowest level up. Example: Cassiod orus, an aged Tremere, uses The Gift on Bobby, a Brujah in his service, to give Bobby Height ened Senses. Cassiod orus loses his highest level of the Auspex Discip line -in this case Psychic Projec tton -at the end of the ritual. Transfe rred Discipl ines can be bought back by the do nor at the normal Experi ence Trait costs. (See Laws of the Night, page 61.)

## IRON MIND

Ian looked do eon at the sobbing woman at his feet, the n glanced around quickly to see ifanyone could hear her cries fur help. He had always h a d a taste fur blondes, but the y could never seem to keep the ir mouths shut when he tried to feedfrom him. It was really annoying. 'You bit me,' the woman sobbed, cowering her neck and sliding back up against the steps of her apart ment building. 'Why did you bite me?'

Concentrating just as his sire had taught him, Ianreached into the woman's eyes with his own and said, 'I never bit you, woman. You were mugged by two men.' The woman grew quiet insta ntly as her mind proce ssed the informa tion Ian ha d planted the re. how ever, he still had not had a chance to feed.... ## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOUBNAL

'Now close you r eyes,' he said The woman obeyed. 'Tilt back you r head. The woman did as lan comma nded. 'Now relax.' The woman's should er's slumped. Conwinced that his victcm would gwe him no more problems, Ian closed his eyes and leaned close to the woman's cold neck like a lover with cold neck? Something struck lan in the chest and he flew backward through the air. A moment later, his back conne cted with afire-escape ladder and he crumpled to the ground, unable to move. Something was stuck through his chest. It felt like his weins were tied to a rock that was sinkinginquick sand. The petite blondestareddo wnat htmwithglowingred eyes, silhoue tted against the flick enng streetli ghts. 'For a Keeper of Elysium, you're pretty dense,' she mocked, all traces of fear and submis sion gone. She hoisted him painf ully onto her should er with one hand and leaped up to catch the fire escape with the other. 'At least it'llmake you easy to control. Bishop Mark likes the m easy. '

This ritual is very useful when you do not wish to be spied upon through use of Auspex. Of the anambu rituals, this one is used most freque ntly. how ever, use of this ritual when dealing with others in the Tremere hiera rchy is not looked upon kindly. ## Requirem ents

This ritual requires an object, such as a hatpin or earring, that is made entirely of iron, and a lodes tone that has been soaked in the blood of the caster for three nights prior to the ritual. O n the third night, the caster must spend an hour speaking an incanta tion while rubbing the lodes tone over the surface of the iron object. At the end of the hour, the object takes on a reddish color and is ready to as a hairpin, an use. The object must the n be worn on the head in some fashion -earring, a tlara or what ever. While the ritual is in effect, the caster is virtu ally immune to Auspex. Anyone attemp ting to use this Discip line on the caster not ices that somet hing is wrong, but not what. The effect of the ritual lasts until the next sunrise or until the object IS removed from the caster's head. ## System

The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player wins, the ritual is a success; if not, the ritual fails. While under the effects of this ritual, the chara cter receives the Mental Traits: Ihscipkwd x5, which can only be used to defend against Auspex-related challe nges. Addition ally, the chara cter receives a free retest on each Auspex-related chall enge he loses. While under the effects of this ritual, achara cter may not relent to any Au chall enge. Thus, you can not choose to let an all y communi cate with yo1 Telepathy; you would have to lose both the initial chall enge and the free retc communi cate telepathic ally. ## S had O w o E T H F: W o LE

'Bretheren,' the ancient-looking Siker Fang called Knows-His-Words, said rily as dawn neared, 'you have defended this place well agams t our enemies, the w a m l Many of our kin have fallen this night, but the ir stories will be told throug hout the a

Some of the othersgro wled the ir agree ment, but nos t p t sat stdm exhaus tion and list

'Though the leeches' treac hery war most foul,' the Fang conti nued, 'though tned to betray me under aflagof truce two nights ago, we hawe yet prewa iled. you r! will b e sung by the tale-keepers for ages hence. '

I

Again, the remai ning Garou could raise only weary enthus iasm ower the Fang's words. Many had died in the night, and those left had suffered griewo usly. 'I want you to know,' the Fang conti nued, seeming to sag a bit where he stood, though his voice picked up speed, 'that you h a w e do ne me aserwice as well. You h a w e taken care of those who would have been my greatest riwals. For that I will sing you r praises. '

The others raised confused eyebrows at that, but the Silver Fang only smiled and took an illustr ious bow. T h e sky light ened in the east. When t h e Fang tumd, his skin was lined with even more wrinkles than it h a d been a moment ago. His brow was h e a w y with concern, or so it seemed. 'And now I go to rest, ' he said, suddenly full of life despite his appear ance. He raised his a m in a fluid motion and shrugged mightily. With a sound like a sheet tearing, he stepped back and sloughed of f the outer layer of h i s skin. Now, standing before the remai ning Garou was a thin, pale man with a long black ponytail and a vicious smik. He bowed again, stepped back into the s M w of the trees and disappe ared with the skin of Knows-His-Words danglingragged from his hand. Before t h e Garou could rouse the mselwes t o give chase, the y heard a sound like laughter in the for est surroun ding the caem. All around the m, wague, twisted shapes clawed and squirmed out of the Umbra and crept closer.... This potent ritual all ows a vampire to actually become a Lupine for one evening. The material compo nent is a cloak made from the skin of a were wolf. The tribe to which the vampire 'belongs' depends upon the type of skin used in the ritual; Auspice is always the urge. While the ritual imparts the for m of a Lupine, it do es not bestow the vampire any Gifts, Rites or knowl edge of how to act like a Garou. It behooves the vampire to have at least one level of Garou Lore before attemp ting this ritual. ## Requirem ents

The vampire must chant over the ill-gotten Lupine skin for an hour-and-a-half while sprink ling his own blood around it. At the end of that time, the vampire do ns the cloak, which fuses to his own skin for the remai nder of the evening. Once this process is complete, the vampire becomes (for all intents and purposes) a Lupine. The cloak separ ates from the vampire at sunrise, and may be reused, although the ritual must be repeated each time the vampire wishes to become a were wolf the reafter. ## System

Upon comple tion of the ritual, the player engages in a Static Mental Challenge versus 14 Traits to deter mine if the ritual is succes sful. The player needs to create a were wolf chara cter and identity using his vampire as a basis. The Lupine is subject to all the advant ages and limitat ions of a normal Garou. It may change for ms and it is vulner able to silver. The were wolf begins with two Rage for each Beast Trait that the caster posse sses, and one Gnosis. The player may attempt to raise the se ratings asa normal Lupine would. If the caster reuses the cloak, the player must engage in a Simple Test to see if the skin is still viable for the ritual. The Garou Gift: Scent of True for m detects that the re is somet hing amiss about the 'were wolf,' but it gives no speci fics. The Garou Gift: Sense Wyrm detects Wyrm-taint if the vampire possess more than two Beast Traits. Unless the chara cter has some level of the Ability: Garou Lore, he finds it nigh imposs ible to interact with Garou society. ## s PIDER'S WEB

Marcel sliced the window pane away with hs glass-cutter and jimmied the lock open The place ddn't even hawe an alarm system, which was odd, consd enng how adamant the man who'd hired him -a creepy old fart named Regrnald -had been about not gettmg caught Marcel med to tell t h e guy that nobody would go to so much trouble to protect a book, but the old dude ddn't listen. It seemed Marcel was nght, after all. As usual

With barely a sound, he pushed open the window sash, pushed back t h e heavy black curtain ands~ppedqui etly ins&amp;. He seemed to b e insome sort of drawing room, but that was all h e could tell. Severald usty c h r s clutt ered the flour The do ur to the hallway (wluchw ould hopef ully lead t o the basement where Regnald sad the book would be) hung open Keeping close to tha w&amp; to awoid squeaky floorbo ards, Marcel made hs way into the hallway

The corndm was pitch-dark. The intruder went no more t h n a few steps when his leg tangled in somet hing and he had to stop. He tned to brace himself to pull himself free -it felt like he'd stepped onto a huge flysmp -but he only managed to get his ann entan gled a. 5 well. After a few moments of squir ming, Marcel realized that he was comple tely trapped what felt like grasping lquid hands He despera tely decided to use his ghs-cutter when the lights in the hallway snapped on almost audibly. When the spots stopped dancing in front of h i s eyes, Marcel could see what ha d entan gled him: webs Either hundreds of the m or one mother-lowin' huge one. He started to struggle frantic ally -what kind of spider makes webbing like this? -but he only succe eded in minng himself further. From behind, Marcel heard foots teps followed b y cold laughter He could not even turn his heal to look by that point

''or der-in dining' indeed,' an old woman mused seemi ngly to herself entertai ning, Reonald. Quite entertai ning '

'Quite

This ritual all ows a vampire to create a web that resem bles an actual spider's web in all respects. The differ ence is that the webbing can fill an entire room and is strong enough to capture and hold victims immobile The webbing lasts until it is tom do wn, making it an excel lent defense for a have n. ## Requirem ents

Before enacting this ritual, the vampire must obtain a black widow spider and feed it vitae on seven consecu tive evenings. O n the final evening, crushes the spider in a marble conta iner and consumes it While invoking a chant, the vampire begins to exude webbing from her hands. This webbing can be shnned into any for m and can cover up to 400 square feet. ## System

The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits to coml this ritual successf ully. The chara cter is immune to any webbing he creates; he can move fi throug hout it. This do es not mean, how ever, that the chara cter can climb or strands. He simply do es not get stuck as others do. If a diffe rent chara cter contacts the web, he is stuck. A victim may attem tear or cut himself free by winning three Static Physical Challe nges versus t Traits. Potence retests are all owed. If a chara cter wishes to enter the web and avoid getting stuck, a test is reqi using a dexte rity-based Physical Trait (Nimble, Athletic) versus 12 Traits. ~

I

## COMBINED DISCIPLINES for THE LONG NIGHT by Shane De Freeat

Eye the atre charac ters in The h g Night have an opportu nity to get in on the actton! Fans of Vampire:the Dark Ages are privy to severalspecialpowersthatresultfromcombi ning Discipl ines.Experiencedvamp ires, thosewho have had numerous decades(evencentu ries)toexploreandexperimentwiththeiruniquepo wers, meld the sesupernaturalcapabilitiestodisc over hiddens kill.of courseitsonlyfair that Mind

Presented here are several Discip line-combina tion powers that can be found in Vampire The Dark Ages, built for use in The Long Night.." future Libellus Sanguinis releases showcase the unique capabili ties of the clans, expect more combina tion Discipl ines to rise under the light of the moon. Learning a combina tion Discip line requires a great deal of effort. In addition to requi ring certain levels of profici ency in various Discipl ines, combina tion Discipl ines have the ir own Experi ence Trait costs. Further more, many of the se powers are known to only a few scatt ered members of specific clans; such esote rica requires unusual dedica tion and study. A Storyte ller is well with in rights to limit the selec tion of avail able combina tion Discipl ines, requi ring charac ters to seek out elder mentors and to under take harro wing training and quests in pursuit of the se unusual capabili ties. ## ARMOROE DARKNESS

(Basic for titude, Intermed iate Obtenebra tion)

We lured the damned thing that used to be wise Lord Albert into the stables. The brave lads who muck the stalk; barred the do ors, locking the monster inside. Archibald, the for mer squire to the unliving knight, or dered torches lightedandf lame-arrows not ched. At his or der, we rained our fire on the stables, turnzng the dry tinder to a beacon that pushed back the night. We hughedin contempt at Lord Albert's unholy scream sfor mercy and absolu tton. the n, suddenly, the screams turned tomoc king laughter, and the burnmg stabledoorflewa part likematchst icks. Archibaldf roze: the rein the do orway, silhoue tted by hungry flame and crashing ruin, stood Lord Albert m amor darker than nighted shadow. Albert advanced on his erstw hile squire, but I learned not the fate of either. Devil hound us all, the others and I fled, leaving Archibald to hu fate. Combining a vampire's preternat ural resili ence with the inky shadows tuff of Obtenebra tion, some Magisters are able to cloak the mselves in adark ness that resists the pall of fire and sunlight. So armored, the se fearsome Lasombra venture into even daylight to further the ir schemes. expendi ture of a Social Trait, you may choose to shape it into the guises of various for ms of night-black clothing or armor. Armorof Darknessshield syou from theeff ects of fireandsunl ight, asamant leof blacknessw raps about you rbody.You should wear a special card promine ntly to indicate you r use of this Discip line, as the for bidding black shiel ding is quite not iceable.or mally, the darkness simplyformslkeashadowyc loak, but withhe

Activa ting Armor of Darkness requires the expendi ture of a will power Trait, and the further expendi ture of three Mental Traits for each level of protec tion. Maintai ning the armor the n requires concentra tion; all actions undert aken while garbed increase in diff iculty by one Trait. The armor lasts until destr oyed by fire or sunlight; each level of protec tion absorbs one level of damage from such sources, until the shadows are burned away. Learning this power requires commerce with one of the few and secre tive Magisters who pract ices it, and it costs eight Experi ence Traits. ## AURAOE INESCAPABLE TRUTH

(Intermed iate do minate, Intermed iate Presence)

'Who invited you to my court?' the Ventrue Prince Valmont asked, peering lazily from his oaken throne. The assassin though tfun'ously, silently recoun ting the details of the story he'd pract iced time and again, and than king the Maker that he could no longer sweat. The pnnce's harpies and his wizened, scrawny senes chal leaned closer. the y eyed t h e assassin like circling wultures--merely interest edat present, but in strikingdist ance skould things turn to the irfawor. 'I... ' the assassin stamm ered, h i s fingers twitc hing toward the poisoned knife in h i s s l e e w e sheathe. Why could n't h e just use his story? He could remember it; why could n't he just say it? 'Tell me why you have come to my do main!'

'I... the senes chal hired me to kill you,' the assassin gasped. 'I see,' Valmont said, leaning back, glancing at his second as his harpies and guards closed ranks. 'How interes ting....'

A favorite of Ventrue courts, this for midable power combines direct mental control with subtle influ ence to for ce subjects to speak only the truth. Though taxing, this power is unquestion ably vital to the polit ical battlefi elds of elder Cainites. When establis hing the Aura of Inescap able Truth, you must expend a will power Trait, and the n engage in a mass Social Challenge against everyone who can see you r face (risking one Social Trait for each target). If you win the chall enge, nobody under the influ ence of the power may delibera tely speak untruthf ully; those who attempt to do so simply find the mselves unable to speak at all, though a target may still speak an untruth if he behewes it to be true. The Aura of Inescap able Truth do es not for ce victims to remain with in you r presence, nor do es it continue to function if the y leave. The power's activa tion and influ ence are automatic ally not iceable to anyone affected. As with all do minate powers, vampires of lower genera tion than you rself are unhind ered by this power, although this may not be immedia tely apparent. This power costs 11 Experi ence Tram to dewelop. ## BLESSED RESILIENCE

(Master for titude, Intermed iate Mortis) is awztall, begmnzngt oend. I w a the rewhenmymasterfelltothebng ands'swords. the y encir cled him like apack of do gs, the n fell on him like staraed ravens. He met the m

bravely, his 'own sword biting deep, but the brigands were too many. My heart broke to merely watch-with outgivingai dbut1 had my or ders. 'Those of my bloodhave made dire enemies,' my master said. 'Should I fall to treac hery, you must deliver my body to my sanctum and wait with it the re.'

I prote sted when h e told me, but tonight I saw him fall, and I have do ne as I was bid. I have loved and served my master well, but I fear that even his s&amp;s of death and the soul are no match f o r But lo, h e s ti n! God be puisedforreturni ngmy master t o mefium beyond the very graue! Let his enemies tremble! Yes, come, master. Take m y hand.... With command of incred ible resili ence and unmat ched insight into the secrets of death, the Cappadoc ians are the undisp uted masters of death during the Long Night. For the truly dedic ated Cappado cian, even the grave itself may be overcome. When extinguishedbe aten, burned, cut or other wise driven to Final Death -you may draw upon you r monume ntal reserves to pull you rself back across the thres hold of destruc tion. You immedia tely expend all of you r remai ning Blood Traits and two will power Traits (plus one additi onal will power Trait for each severed limb that must re-attach to you r body). If you do not have suffic ient will power, you fail to rise. Otherwise, you r body parts crawl back together and reknit (as long as the y are nearby -with in about 10 paces or so). You the n return to the Incapacit ated health level. When you exercise Bkssed Resili ence, you tax you r supernat ural reserves to the ir absolute limits. Effecti vely, you r genera tion rises by one -a seventhgenera tion Cappado cian using this power is consid ered eighth-genera tion after ward, with all of the concomi tant losses to Blood Traits, will power Traits, Attribute Traits and high-level Discipl ines. This weake ning is perma nent, though you may still lower you r genera tion later through diabl erie. Uneart hing the maste rful Blessed Resili ence costs 18 Experi ence Traits. ## BLOOD PBARLOETHE~OMBU

(Basic Mortis, Basic Necrom ancy, Basic Thaumat urgy, and at least two Intermed iate levels or one Advanced level in the se Discipl ines)

I was n't good enough, the y said. the y told me I did n't have the power and discip line to control the dead. of ficious bastards. Augustus would n't have put up with thutgar bage i f the y'd said it to him. I studied the dead, magic and the occult -the modern the or ies -for years before the se 'scholars' came along. I know what I'mdoing. The deadcand ance on my strings just as easily as the irs. I uncov ered this body myself. I prese rved it. I even infused my blood into the pearl comple tely on my o m. And the corpse rises, just like I said it would. It rises! Now I'll show those bastards who's 'not good enough'! The rombu, more commonly called 'zombies,' are unfai ling servants of the Clan of Death. For you ng members of the clan, the neces sary exper tise in the Mortis Discip line is imposs ible to achieve due to the simple impedi ment of genera tion. how ever, by combi ning research of the recently inducted Giovanni with more general magical knowl edge, it is possible for even novices to develop a means to create unliving servants. By distil ling two Blood Traits into a special magical pearl-like sphere (a process requi ring eight hours of work, and thus gener ally perfo rmed outside the confines of game time), you may enchant you r blood to animate a corpse. Success

[in; you must place the blood pearl in the mouth of the corpse and make?ental Challenge (diffic ulty 6). If you succeed, the for merly inert corpse qombu under you r direct control for the remai nder of the evening,; into dust at sunrise. zombu has the Attribute Traits it posse ssed in life, although Dextrous, i d Quick are replaced with Tenacious, Tireless or Tough. The creation also.e health levels it posse ssed in life, but do es not suffer wound penal ties. blood pearl created by this ritual works on only true corpses -vampires are not atfected by it. a library or mentor after achie ving the requi site levels of skill in Discipl ines. As a ritual, this power do es not cost Expenence Traits, but it must be studied from

## BODY ARMORY

## (Intermed iate Protean, Intermed iate Vicissi tude)

Reinhart clutched the ruby tight in one fist and crouched in the moonsh adow of the baron's castle. A few quick seconds would put him in the woods and near enough to the river where he'd h&amp;n his rowboat. He heard that the baron was no man to make an enemy of some rumurs ewen sugge sted that the lord devoured those who crossed him -but Reinhart cared only for the ruby. It had belonged to his family before the baron had establi shed his 'do main' here. Let the peasants whisper about the 'hells pawn' that guarded the baron's gates; Reinhart had seen none when he sneaked in. Let the ignorant fanners believe that the nobleman drank blood and tortured his enemies for amuse ment; all Reinhart knew was that in another few moments he would reach his boat and be safely away with the means to restore his family's for tune. 'Ah, Hew Reinhart,' a thzckly accented voice said as a hand fell heavily on his should er. Reinhart turned to see the baron himself, dressed in all his lordly finery, peering do wn at him. Reinhart had not ewen heard him approach. 'I believe you are trespas sing.'

Reinhartmadeasift osay somet hing, but anobjecti nthe baron'shand gave himpawe. It appeared to be a spade, but it seemed to grow and elongate, like watchi ngan icicle melt, until the baron appe~edtobehold inga~kedly longspear head. Reinhartquail edas the lord spoke again, raising the weapon into the moonl ight. When the baron did so, Reinhart could see that he held no object in his hand at d; the insmment held aloft was the man's hand. “and my dea Reinhart, the reisnothingworsethananuninwitedg uest.. sorts of hand-held weapons. Byreshapingfleshand bone, you canformdistinctiveanddangerouswea pons. the seitemshaveallo fthe Traitsassociatedwithnormalweaponsoftheir type, and the y inflict aggrav ated damage.As the se tools are still part of you, the y can not be given toothers—you literallyreshape your limbs into the likenessesofvar ious

Turning a limb into a weapon with this power costs one Blood Trait, two Traits for two-handed weapons. Only hand weapons may be imitated -you can not fashion a bow and arrows out of you r body. This power costs nine Expenence Traits. ## DARK STEEL

(Intermed iate Obtenebra tiun, Intermed iate Potence)

'You hide from me in darkness, ' Adrienne sighed, her lilting voice carrying into the rocky niche where Michael hid, halfway up the cold mountain side. 'How quaint.'

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL

Michaeldrewhiskneestighttohischestandtriednottolethisbillowingbr eath-clouds revealhishidingp lace.Iblindp anic, hehadfledupthemountainoutsidehisvillage when Adriennecamefo rhim, and nowhewastra pped.Afearful teartraceda nicy linedowm his face.Adrienn ewas beaut iful, but deadly, damnedandcomple tely insane. "Iwouldhavemadeyoumyhus band, Michael,"Adriennetau nted, ervoicecl oser. "We could have been together the rest of our lives."

Michael almost shot back that he would sooner be wed to a fishmo nger's spotty daughter than to the blasphe mous parody of a woman Adrienne had become, but a sound outside his hiding place stopped him. Something long and h e a w y slid along the ground outside. It sounded like someone dragging a tree. 'But you denied me, Michael,' Adrienne went on. 'You should h a w e run sooner and farther.' As she spoke, a column of ebon smoke (or so it seemed to Michael) snaked into his shelter and coiled around h ankle like an iron manacle. He shrieked, and t h e black t e n t a c l e hoisted him roughly out of the h o l e and into the air. He dangkd upside do wn li k e an animal caught in a snare, blubb enng in terror as Adrienne -beaut iful, damned Adrienne -emerge dfrm t h e shadows. T h e t e n t a c l e around Michael's foot curried him closer w her. 'Now, Michael, let us talk of Hell and the fury that only it can cowet.'

Perhaps one of the most fearsome combina tion powers known, Dark Steel imbues the shades of Obtenebra tion with the unnat ural might of Potence. Shade tenta cles conjured with the Arms of Ahriman become frighteni ngly strong. Should you choose to use Dark Steel, you must expend a Blood Trait upon activa ting Arms of Ahriman. Summoning the tenta cles the mselves proceeds as usual, but the tenta cles have six Physical Traits, plus two more Physical Traits for each additi onal Blood Trait expended. Learning this power requires the expendi ture of nine Expm'ence Traits. ## HATCHTHE VIPER

## (Basic Protean, Intermed iate Seeentis)

'Bring him before me,' Gillem procla imed, motio ning the guards to stand back and let the wisitorstepfor ward. 'I will hear this blackg uard's message in the prince's absence. It is better than he deserwes, certa inly.'

The wisitur, a suspe cted Follower of Set, strode for ward, smiling audacio usly at the prince's senes chal, ewen winking at Gillem! The pnnce's court iers tittered at that, but none of the m showed the proper decorum by deigning to scoff. Gillem made a not e to himself that it was time for new attend ants. The pnnce would have to be made aware of that when he returned. 'You have a message?' the senes chal asked, when the all eged Setite stopped boldly in front of him. He was, admitt edly, rather handsome up close, ifa bit aloof. The Setite only noddedalittlesti ffly, but saidnot hing. Gillemleanedcl oser, towenng ower the slim Egyptian man. 'the n speak.'

The Egyptian's +-oat pulse dand h e opened his mouth w i t h a reptihn hiss. Gillem cried to scream, but it was too late. Something grubbed his throat in an iron grip and began to coil abouthisneckands houl. T~Setiteonl ysmi Ldandwanlshedbe fore GiUem'sbulgifig eyes. A distur bing power known to only Setites, this combina tion of Discipl ines all ows a Serpent to disgorge a living viper from his very mouth. The Follower of Set concentr ates his vitae and for ms it into a serpen tine ghoul, which he vomits for th in a horrif ying gout of scaly flesh. A full turn of concentra tion must precede the birth of a serpent, and you must expend two Blood Traits. The serpent is consid ered a ghoul and exhibits the for atude Discip line at the level of Endurance. With a poiso nous bite, the viper can be deadly to mortals; it is consid ered to possess the Physical Traits: Lithe x2 and Qwck x2. If the serpent is not fed one Blood Trait every week, it disso lves into poiso nous blood-like bile that causes two health levels of damage to anyone foolish enough to drink it. You may sustain more than one serpent, but each must be fed blood if it is to survive. Serpents created with this power typic ally display distinc tive patterns and personali ties that may be traced to the ir creator. you r Storyte ller can is sue a card represen ting you r ghoulish serpents. This power costs nine Expenence Traits. ## THE ILLNESS UNVEILED

(Basic Ausgex, Master for titude)

'Heismostgnevo usly ill,' the hermit said, leaning over the sickc hild's body tospeak to his mother. 'You are wise to have brought h z m to me.'

'I than kyou, but the ysayyouserv ethe Devil,'Magdastamm ered, unsettl edby the hermit's gaze. 'In t h e town, that is, sir. But not I.' T h e hermit only laughed at Magda's dscom fort and laul IS with ered hands on her son's for ehead. He sard no prayers; he used no herbs; he d d not even light t h e fire beneath t h e iron pot in the comer of h i s cabin. T h e apothe cary in topun s a d that thts man could heal her son, but Magda grew m e and more uneasy by the moment. The boy suddenly broke out in a cold sweat, his legs twitc hing and kicking. His lips bared back from his teeth m a snarl, and his back arched. Skll, the hermit said not hing; he only stood with his gnarled, rootlike hands on the boy's face. Magda's eyes grew wzde -surely this was not natural! T h e towns folk were nght; this hermit was in l e a g u e with Satan. She wavered, the n reached a tentatwe hand toward her son, the other makinga cr u d e wardingges ture. The hermit's wiry hands tlght ened on her son, and in one final gasp the boy lay silent. 'the worstispas sing,' the hermits adat last. the oldmanlookedlikehehadexe rted himselfagrea thal, but did not seem to be breathing hard. 'The boy will recover in time.' The hermit stood silent for a moment, the n glanced up at Magda. A s the woman put a hand on her son's brow, the hermit grabbed her wnst. 'And now,' he whisp ered, 'kt us discuss my payment.'

By diagno sing a victim through the use of supernat ural senses, and the n sharing vampiric preternat ural resili ence, it is possible to help mortals through the throes of dange rous diseases. In an age rife with plagues and sickness, this is a very useful ability for keeping one's retai ners alive (especi ally for the Cappadoc ians, who se Lamia servi tors have an unfortu nate tendency to pass on rather hideous and fatal infect ions). You must make a Static Mental Challenge (diffic ulty eight Traits) in or der to diagnose a disease successf ully; this diagn osis is subject to the limitat ions of you r Medicine knowl edge. Once you diagnose a disease, you may bolster the victim's resist ance with you r own. Make a Static Physical Challenge with a diffic ulty determ ined by the nature of the disease: five Traits for a common cold, up to nine for typhoid and 12,15 or more for particul arly nasty afflict ions such as Black Plague (the Lamia disease rates 18 Traits). A succes sful chall enge all ows the victim to begin recove ring, although the process may still take days or weeks. This power costs 10 Expenence Trazts to learn. ## RETAINTHE QUICK BLOOD

(Intermed iate Celerity, Intermed iate Quietus)

Right now, I am 'feeding. ' I appeared in silence and scythed through the gwcrds and retai ners of this city's prince OM hour ago, only to use up the last of my vitae before laying into my 'true' quarry. I barely escaped the pnnce's chambers before he called for reinforcem ents; the fact that I had to leave clues as to my destina tion only made matters do ubly diffi cult. Now the city's 'sheriff' -one Eric Fit?-Walter -comes for me, confi dent in the assump tion that I stalk the streets for kine blood before I can make good my escape. He has beenstompingaround just out of sight since his shockedpr ince or dered meapgrehe nded. I have had no chance tostopand feed, and this sheriffdoubtle ssly believes I am at the end of my reserves. He is so confi dent. would n't h e b e surpr ised to know that even as I slow to wait for him, my strength returns of its own accord? would n't he be surpnsed to learn that his very prince hired me to 'get the bother some Mister Fit?-Walter out of the way'? I think h e would. Ah, he approa ches. Perhaps I will ask him. The fearsome Assamites are capable of maintai ning the power of the ir vitae, even after calling upon the ir blood for the preternat ural speed of Celerity. An Assamite can cause the blood that energ izes his limbs to trickle slowly back into his system to be spent again. When using this power, all Blood Traits expended for Celerity in a given conflict return after an hour. Should you ingest additi onal blood during this period, any retur ning blood that would exceed you r normal Blood Trait limit is lost. Thus, if a vampire with a full blood pool expends two Traits of blood for Celerity, the n drinks a single Blood Trait, the retur ning vitae simply grants one Blood Trait -the second retur ning Trait is lost because the vampire is already at the limit of his blood capacity. Returning blood 'was ted' in this fashion liter ally seeps out of the vampire's pores and tear ducts -a distur bing sight indeed. Mastery of this power requires the expendi ture of eight Experi ence Traits. ## SHADOWED BYES

## (Intermed iate Auspex, Intermed iate Obtenebra tion)

Rudolp hand Geraldstu died the body that lay b y the crossr oads. It was Lord Albert's, for certain. the y had been given the 'demon's' descrip tion in painsta king detail b y the bishop. Rut rather than find the rampa ging terror of the nighted country side (as the y'd been told), the y found this lifeless, unmoving corpse. Appare ntly, either the rumms were all false or the villa gers had dealt with the ir own probkm. Quite a bother, actually. 'Dead as the y get,' Gerald said, spitting on the cold body's lifeless face. 'Dead and dumped. ' Hissalivaran into t h e blackp ools where ravenshadalr eady beenat lord Albert's eyes. 'do n't make sense,' Rudolph observed, turning away from the discomfor ting body and looking into the surroun ding woods, as ifexpectinganat tack. 'Too simple. And why did n't anybody tell us when we got in? And why ha'en't wolves been at the body if he's been dead a while!'

Gerald stood next to his longtime partner. As the y talked, neither not iced Lord Albert's 'corpse' stir. The vampire sat up silently. T h e pools of black ness fell away from his eyes like water draining from a bath. Outraged b y Gerald's insult, Albert wiped the spit from his face and stood to his full height, a blood-song singing in his ears. 'Mighty hunters,' he sneered. 'Here is you r prey.' e

ough any Magister can see through the black ness created with his own use tebra tion, the blinding and smothe ring effects of the darkness disor ient foes. L Lasombra needs to disco mfit an opponent with out relying upon blatant of shadow-shaping, precise control is required, as evide nced by this power. ien you invoke Shadowed Eyes (at the cost of one Physical Trait), you 2 small patches of black ness that surround the eyes of you r target. Obvilis black ness blinds you r foe (see Laws of the Hunt for rules on darkness, 7) and renders his appear ance most unsett ling (besto wing the Negative 'rait: Bestial). Alterna tely, you may use this power on you rself, enabling you iidate you r adversa ries while retai ning the ability to sense you r surround-~ p. uoing so grants you the additi onal Social Trait: Intimida ting. Shadowed Eyes remain for the duration of the conflict or for 10 minutes. Learning Shadowed Eyes costs six Experi ence Traits. ## SMOTHERINC~ DARKNESS

(Basic Obfuscate, Basic Obtenebra tion)

I chant and cry along with the others in the mob, though I feel a diffe rent fervor than the y do. the y are filled with faith in the ir only-god, and the y believe that the y will rout this vampire with not hing more than piety and torches. the y are fools. We crest the hill -the mob and I -and the vampire pee ts us from the battlem ents of his strong hold. He has the gall to wave as we come boiling over the crest likefire-bearing ants; he h a s even left hisgate open in mockinginvita tion. Were I like the others in this mob, I might b e afraid at his cavalier fearless ness, but I am not like the others. I unders tand my enemy. I alone have any power over him. As the mob comes with in bowshot of the strong hold, the vampire suddenly s t a d up straight and lifts his a m, as i f to welcome us. Many with in the mob shout insults or condemnat ions, and most gesture angrily with the ir torches. I do not. I carry no torch. Moments later, a mass of black shapes erupts from just behind the vampire and streams towardus. Oneamongthemobsh outs, 'Bats,' but1 know better. T h e blackshapesa rrow straight for the torches, extinguis hing the flames like vile black rain. Instantly, the night closes in on u s and the mob erupts into chaos. Not I. I lift my head and shout defiance. I needed the others to lead me here. Now I shift do wn to four clawed feet and dart through the mass of terri fied humans t o the open gate. The blooddri nker will be mine. Mobile, 'living' shadows are the hallmark of the Obtenebra tion Discip line, but with this power, you can send batlike shades to exting uish of fending light sources -torches, lamps, can dles and such. The shadows flit about, surroun ding and smothe ring the brigh test lights in the are a, plunging the place into darkness. You must see (or other wise sense) the light source that you wish to exting uish with this power. Each Mental Trait expended causes a shadow to seek out and exting uish one flame or light, up to the size of a torch. Particul arly large flames may be suscept ible to multiple shadows, at the Storyte ller's discre tion. the se shadows have actual physical subst ance. Though the y can not injure, the y can certa inly startle and confuse; shadows summoned with out a target flap about, causing noise and bumping into things for the duration of the conflict (or 10 minutes). This power costs five Experi ence Traits to learn. Laws of the Night 1999

* i ANY MOTHFR'S CHILD by Carl Bowen Inspired by a Vampire chara cter created by Hannah Curry We intend to include a piece of World of Darkness fiction in every is sue of t h e Journal. We hope to showcase talented new writers (one of w h o m I am not -new, that is) who might not have a chance to appear elsew here. Plus, fiction dealing with the World of Darkness of fers insightsintothelive sand timesofthepe ople (i.e., the chrac ters) who inhab itit, and suchinsi ghts of Jeryou(asplarer sand Storytel lers)~vorands pice tomake you r Mind's Eye the atreg ames all t h e m e attrac tiwe. Mind's Eye the atre releases should b e simultaneo usly entertai ning and useful. T h i s piece, in partic ular, serves as a look at how derangem ents driwe charac ters to dange rous, thought less deeds, yet can somet imes serwe to make the m all too human. t

The mother grabbed her daughter by the collar a bit too roughly and pulled her close. People pressed in on all sides, crowding to get on the trains that would take the m away from the war-blighted country side to one of the ghetto-towns. The mother feared losing her daughter in the crowd. the y had been marched to the train yard days away from the ir home, and not once had the woman let her daughter out of her sight. The girl told her mother that she was supposed to get on a diffe rent train, but the mother did n't listen. She stoic ally led her daughter to her own trainthe trainshe should be boarding with her husband and son -determ ined that she would keep the girl with her. Dmitri, the father, had to fight. He had to demand that the soldiers leave the m alone. The soldiers took the boy first; a soldier shot him through the head as Dmitri stared in mute horror. Dmitri fell next as his wife and daughter looked on. It all happened so fast that the mother had no chance to do anything before the soldiers restra ined her. the y would probably have killed Dmitri anyway, but if he had n't tried to fight the m, perhaps.... Now, the mother would not be left alone. She clamped a vise-like hand on her daughter's should er and moved toward her own train. She would not raise her coming unborn child alone. The soldiers would not tell the m why the y were being herded and prodded. the y were not even Jewish as many of the shouting, jeering soldiers seemed to think, but the re seemed to be no reason other than random chance why she and her daughter should be split up. Perhaps if she got her daughter onto the train with her before the soldiers not iced.... A sharp blow to the back sent the mother spraw ling, dragging her daughter to the ground with her. She turned to see a soldier towering over her with his rifle upraised, his body silhoue tted in the last red rays of sunset. He shouted at her in his language that sounded like barking do gs, the n pointed at the girl. The mother clutched her daughter tighter with one hand and put the other to her stomach. The soldier brought the rifle stock do wn on her again, sending screa ming white non-images through her brain. He shouted and pointed again, looking even more like a barking do g, his billo wing winter-breath like an enraged can ine's froth. Others of his pack gathered around, pushing back people who tried to see what was going on. One of the soldiers grabbed the woman's daughter and tried to pull her to her feet. The girl clutched more tightly to her mother. The screa ming soldier brought the rifle do wn again, still shouting his unintellig ible language, and the world went dark. Or perhaps the sun finally set. The mother could not tell. v r

The woman almost catches the lone girl, but the or phan is clever and eludes capture. The woman looks in trashdumps ters and glances occasion ally at creaking fire escapes, but the girl is nowhere to be found. Surely she do es not think that the woman would hurt her? She only wants to take care of the child. To give her a home and family again. To protect her. This is no place to be alone. v v

The mother awoke in a cold tent with a bandage above her left eye and a frighte ning soreness beneath her stomach. She heard the muted sound of the soldiers' barking outside, and she could see that the sun had long since set. The air still smelled like crowds and machine oil, so she knew she was in the train yard, but she wondered why she had not been packed unconsc ious onto one of the trains. The woman lifted her head stiffly and looked around for her daughter. The girl was not in the tent. Perhaps that was why the woman had not been moved. Maybe her daughter had been sent on ahead. Alarmed, the woman called out the girl's name. 'She has not been harmed,' a voice assured her in broken Polish. 'She is waiting. Calm you rself.'

The woman turned, sore muscles protes ting, to find a tall soldier slouc hing just inside the tent flap. He wore a long leather coat, belted at the waist, with a bent-edged cross on a red arm band below his left should er. He removed his hat, smoothed his close-cut blond hair and crouched do wn beside her. Relucta ntly, she calmed do wn. 'You put up fight,' the man said, his spark ling blue eyes boring into her with an unsett ling fascina tion. 'Why?'

Certainly, she had n't been the only one to do so. W h y had this soldier singled her out? 'Where is my daughter?'

'Yes, I see,' the man nodded, appare ntly understan ding only the last two words of the woman's answer. 'Loyalty is most noble, no?'

'My daughter...'

'Yes, yes,' the man said. He lay a hand absently on the woman's leg, where it showed through a rip in her skirt. 'I keep you together somew here else. You will not go the bad towns with the cattles.'

The woman said not hing; she only shivered in dread. Her daughter would be returned to her and the y would be spared what ever fate awaited those who rode the trains, but the y would survive on the mercy of this man. This man with his unsett ling eyes. The woman squirmed in the grasp he had on her leg. His hand was unnatur ally cold, even in the winter air. What was more, his breath did not make white clouds when he spoke. The old woman stops her search and stands alone in the middle of the street. you ng people on either side pause to look at her (this strange, frantic creature wearing outdated, shape less homespun). the y move on with out interest when she fails to amuse the m. - +? She has lost sight of the or phan-child. It is not the first time -she has birthed many children who fled her or fell from grace -but each is still heart-breaking in its own way. Why must the y always go? Why can none of the m trust her and stay with her when all she wants to do is protect the m and take care of the m? Not even her friends -those too old to be her childrenbel ieve her capable of this. Why? And where is the child? do esn't she know that the soldiers are out the re right now, lying in wait to take her unawares? v v

The woman did not see the tall blond man again for several months. The morning after she and her daughter were reunited, a truck full of leering, slave ring soldiers arrived and packed the m of f to an encamp ment miles from the ir home. When the y arrived, a kapo -a rail-thin, balding man who sneered behind the backs of the soldiers, though he treated the priso ners no less roughly -took the m to a cramped tent behind a ramsha ckle barracks and or dered the m to remain the re until summoned. He spoke only the barking language, but his angry gestures and the short cudgel he was all owed to carry said enough. i e

the y stayed, clinging to each other wordle ssly, until the kapo returned. He or dered the mother to stand and follow him, which she did with tremb ling knees. She whisp ered to her child to stay in the tent until she came back, and the kapo hit her across the mouth. Clamping a powerful hand around her elbow, he dragged her away from her child. Her unborn baby gave a feeble kick, and was still. The woman stops and listens to the night wind. The barren street rustles with disca rded litter and scurr ying, furtive foots teps, but no one reveals himself in the garish pink-or ange of the streetli ghts. The child is gone, but now someone follows the woman. Faint foots teps begin to grow louder and more distinct, and someone calls her name from a great distance. Panicking, the woman darts away in the direc tion she last saw the child. She must find the girl before the other one -the one in pursuit -tries to take her. The woman has do ne too much, suffered too much, to let anyone take the child now. She hears the crying of a lost and lonely soul, and she homes in on it like an arrow. The child will be safe; she will see to that. v v

For the next few months, the woman lived in Hell. Every day, somet imes as many as five or six times, the kapo dragged her to yet another of the do g-soldiers to be abused. Life so far from the front, in the harsh winter climate, had stoked raging furnaces in the soldiers' hearts. When the re were no men to kill, the woman served as that rage's only vent. Aside from her daughter, she was the only female for miles, and 'subhuman' (as the y told her she was) or not, she filled a niche. In the first weeks, when ever she came into the presence of a soldier who had not yet seen her, she would beg him to not hurt her. She pleaded on behalf of her unborn child; she cried out of her own fear; she pleaded that if she died, no one would take care of her daughter. not hing changed the soldiers' minds. Those who even unders tood her only laughed or beat her. The woman eventu ally learned not to beg. It brought only more abuses and punishm ents, and the very mention of her daughter brought frighte ning, 4D

'Finished with what?' her daughter asked, shaken by the strange look in her mother's eyes. She did not know exactly where the kapo takes her mother each day, but she knew why. Over the months, she had seen the toll such treat ment had takenon the older woman. The life had long since vanished from her mother's eyes. The girl shivered and huddled against the thin fabric of the tent. 'do n't be afraid,' her mother said, taking of f her dirty, thread bare scarf. 'Put this on.'

The or phan recoils as the strange woman takes the ancient shawl from around her should ers and places it around the girl's, but she can not move away. The inten sity of the woman's brown eyes pins her. 'What's this for? I do n't know you.' v

The woman flinched at that, but she did not back away. 'It will be cold,' she said. 'the y're coming for you. Put this on.'

Her daughter obeyed meekly, and the woman slipped the scarf around her neck and under her dark-brown hair. She wrapped it twice and laid the ends between the vague curves of the girl's budding breasts. As her daughter sat uncomfort ably looking at her, the woman held the ends lightly between her fingers. ## v v

'You're scaring me,' the girl says, swallo wing and stretc hing her slender neck uncomfort ably. She looks past the woman's should er and sees someone come into view do wn the all ey. The woman do esn't seem to not ice. 'the y're coming,' the woman says again. 'the y do n't want me this time. the y want you.'

'Who?' the girl says. 'Who are the y?'

'the y're devils,' the woman tells her, her hands closing over the ends of the scarf. 'the y're through with me, and now the y want to take you. the y can't terro rize me any more, but the y know you're still afraid of the m.'

At that moment, the girl was more afraid of her mother than any soldier, and she leaned back, trying to put distance between the two of the m. Her mother only bent closer, pulling uncomfort ably on the ends of the scarf. 'the y can not take you.' v

'No one's coming,' the girl says, gulping audibly under the edge of the woman's shawl. 'I do n't know what you're talking about. No one's trying to take me anywhere.'

The strange woman with the flying, wild brown hair and the intense brown eyes only sighs. 'It's all right, my dearest. I won't let the m.' She looks do wn, and absently lays a hand aside her stomach. v v

'Please,' the daughter said, her voice a bit thin. Her green eyes flashed and showed the whites. She gulped even louder. 'Be quiet now, sweeth eart.'

'Everyt hing will be fine.'

The girl's eyes bulge and her hands shoot to her neck, but her fingers only pluck at the fabric the re before falling back to rest meekly in her lap. The woman hears a vague sound like running steps, but knows it is only her heart beat thunde ring in her ears. Or perhaps her daughter's heart beat. It is so hard to tell. The girl sits upright in one last spasm, and her chin jerks up to the hazy night sky. The mother wonders briefly if she can see the gates of Heaven as it is rumored those trapped in Hell can do. 'You are free, little one,' she whispers. 'the y will not find you. the y can not take you.' She holds the child to her chest and cradles her, a tear of bitter triumph tracing a line do wn her nose and falling on the girl's face. v v

The mother covered her daughter's cold body with the thin sheet the y had to share at night, and turned to leave her tent. The do g soldiers would probably kill her, but she was not afraid. She had not been for months. Maybe the kapo would be the first one to find her and deal with her. The best part about being in Hell, she knew, was that the re were always devils close by if you needed the m. As she exited the tent and took a deep, cold breath, the woman found herself proven right. the re before her stood the tall, blond soldier she had n't seen in months. He looked exactly the same, do wn to the folds in his long, belted leather jacket. The band on his arm blazed a fierce red, drawing her eyes to the bent-edged cross in the center. She was almost glad. The soldier glanced into the tent at the body of the child and cocked a thin yellow eyebrow. His blue eyes sparkled with amaze ment. 'A relation of you rs?'! he asked. His accent was still horrible, but he seemed to have acquired a better grasp of Polish. Or maybe the mother had gained a better understan ding of the do g soldiers' barking language. 'Most interes ting.' He came a step closer to the woman and put a hand on her should er. He backed her easily into the tent and sat her do wn on the ground beside the pallet. The woman only stared past the tall soldier into the night, as if unaware of where she was. The soldier lifted the woman's chin. She shivered at the unnat ural cold of his skin, but moved her head as she was bid. This man was more gentle than the other soldiers in the camp, but the woman did n't not ice. He leaned closer to her and touched her neck with the tip of his dry tongue. The woman could feel her pulse where the man touched her. She was calm. Her daughter was safe. v v

The soldier mumbled somet hing like a blessing, and the woman's neck burned. She closed her eyes. Maybe the man was an angel sent to take her from this place to be with her family again. v v

Someone shakes the woman roughly from behind, and she opens her eyes. She turns to see a familiar man looking at her with anxiety. White clouds huff from his mouth as his breath freezes in the chill air. 'I've been trying to find you for hours,' the man says. He runs his hand unconscio usly through his long black hair and nervo usly tucks it into the collar of his stylish overcoat. His cheeks flush red from exertion and the cold, and he looks over his should er continuo usly. 'What are you do ing in this part of town?'

'She is safe,' the woman answers dreamily. ''I had to protect her from the soldiers. the y would have come for her in the morning.'

The man stares at her in confu sion, his eyebrows drawn do wn into one black line. He shakes her should ers roughly and says, 'English. Speak English.'

The woman blinks and tries to concent rate. Her friend hates it when she slips into her native tongue. She glances over her should er at the heap sprawled in the tenement do orway. ''I was making sure-'

The man, her friend Alex, the one who takes care of her as she sleeps, looks past her at the body. His brown eyes widen and his jaw goes slack. 'Who is this child?'

'My daughter,' the woman says, smiling with rememb ered pride. 'She is so beaut iful and pure. She is safe now.'

Alex only gulps audibly and shakes his head. 'We have to leave before someone finds us. Or her.'

'It do esn't matter,' the woman says, focusing on Alex for the first time. 'She is safe. That is all I care about.'

'Come on,' Alex says, pulling the woman for ward into astumb ling walk. 'We may have to leave the city for good this time. Drake is tired of cleaning up after you r messes. Did I tell you he or dered me to put you to Final Death if you did somet hing like this again?'

'If it is what you want, Alex,' the woman says, still looking back at the body. 'I have n't seen Dmitri for a while. It would be nice to talk to him again.'

Sighing, Alex pulls the woman deeper into the city, toward the nearest subway entrance. He could no more kill her than he could kill himself. He would sooner face the wrath of all the city's elders than live with the shame of causing the woman any harm. Hopefully Drake will be able to cover this up, he thinks. He has do ne so before in worse situat ions. I do ubt he'll even miss the two of us. The woman shambles of f after Alex dreamily. Alex will take care of her. He always has. And she has taken care of him. She would never let anything happen to him. No matter what dangers may come, she will make sure he stays safe with her. e

## MAYDAY! ## AN OBLIVION STORYIN THREEPARTS by Lindsay Woodcock

what goodwouldamagazinedev oted to Mind's Eye Theatrebewithoutanod here or there toactua llot?torytelli ngis, afteallwhatthesegamesarealla bout, and ou can'ttella good, evoca tive, nteres ting storywithoutawinnin glot.o, totha tend, and inanatt empt tohelpyoukeepyour live-actionchroniclescurrent with Worldof Darkness contin uity, wepres enta three-partstorythatwillhavedirecttiestomajoreventsi nthe Worldof Darkne ssin1999. History, whetherinthe real worldorinthew orld of you rgame, sooften happenswit hout anyonenoticingapeopl eand charac ters are sobusy dealing with the minutia of day-to-day crises that the y do n't realize the y'rerig htin the middle of somethingof epic, sweepingproport ions.Occasion ally, though, somet hing momentoushappensthatthosesamepeoplewalk away, wide-eyedandspeech less, with no do ubt that the y have justbeen part of history in all itsgran deur.Ina live action game, this effect is price less.you knowyou'veput toget hera trulyama zing game when yourpla yers and Narrators end the session stunned at the scope and drama of the evening'sevents. Mayday!all owsyour Obliviontr oupe toparticipateinsuchamomen tous event.Noruiningthesurprisey etit'sinthree parts, soyouhavetowaitu ntil the end toseewhathappensaebut your Circle will participateinthebiggestthi ngto happen in Wraith history since Charon's fateful battle with Gorool. First, though, some techn ical not es.No ready-made story could possibly accountforplayercreati vity, Narratorpreferenceorevenpurech ance.the reare justtoomanyvaria bles atworkin alive-actioncontexttomakeforasingles tory that will workfor everyone.Flexibi lity is essen tial.With that in mind, each install ment is broken into indivi dual scenes.The scene descript ions are the n divided into two sections:Hard Info and Choices. Hard Infopres ents facts, events and details that must somehow occur or be revealed for the chronic leto run aspla nned.How you work this perti nent informationint othe story is large lyup toyou, as Storyte ller, but itneeds tobe included.Feel free to use existing social struct ures, Narrator charac ters or you r favorite plot devices.The how is not impor tant, as long as the what comes across. Choicesisjustwh atit seems.Weantici pate someof the things a Circle might do in the situat ions posed by Hard Info.Story flexibi lity is encourag edin the se sections, asboth Narrator and charactersdevelopthe plot.Aslongastheskel eton of the storythe Hardlnfoisin tact, do n'worryaboutforcingitsfleshint oany partic ular shape. While the adven ture is designed for a small-tomedium-sized Circleof wraiths, itcanea sily accommodatealargertr oupe.Narratorcharac ters, Spectres and all mannerofother characterssh owup, and all of the mneedplayersto make the experience meet itspoten tial.Again, feelfreetouseexisting charactersout side im ae of the central Circle; having familiar elements intro duce or elabo rate on new plot threads incre ases the drama and believabi lity of the game. Plus, emplo ying existing charac ters to drive this plot of fers direct motiva tion for the players' charac ters to get involved, and it makes the players feel like active particip ants in the develop ment of events. Still, we include profiles for signifi cant particip ants at the end of each install ment in case you need to fill any holes. A final not e: The three parts of Mayday! mix and match with you r existing game. You could wait until all three parts are released, the n play the m all together as a series, or you could play each part as it comes out in the Journal, separa ting episodes with events from you r own chron icle. Players, everything past this point IS Storyte ller material. If you don't want to spoil the surprise or clue you rself in before you actually play the game, read no further. ## PART ONE: AMBASSADOR

S U ~ C ~ E S T I O N S

Running this install ment of Mayday! in you r live-action chron icle requires only one Storyte ller chara cter who do es not already exist in you r game: Tadashi Nakagawa. Other useful charac ters for this plot include an 'acquaint ance' -be he a diplom atic envoy to the Jade Kingdom or simply the first Necrop olis guard to spot Nakagaw awho introd uces Nakagawa to the Circle; a secre tive Heretic, should the Circle be able to locate the wraith from the 'list' the y find in the course of action; various members of of ficious Hierarchy bureauc racy; and even a Renegade or two. Props for this install ment of Mayday! include representat ions of the box Tadashi Nakagawa carries, as well as of the items in the box. ## SCENE ONE

## HARD I N E O
- The Circle is introd uced to (or comes across, if the re are no existing all ies or acquainta nces to make introduct ions) Tadashi Nakagawa, a Jade wraith who claims to be on an ambassado rial trip to the higher-ups of the Necrop olis. Nakagawa appears you ng, and is unfailinglypo lite. Hecarriesar elic boxabout the sizeofadepart ment-store gift box. He do es not open the box and do es not give any informa tion about its contents. - After approxima tely 10 minutes of play (or if the charac ters become inexcus ably rude), Nakagawa bows and walks away, leaving the charac ters alone. - The acquaint ance (should the re be one) leaves with Nakagawa. ## CHOICES
- The Circle might be polite and friendly; any courtesy or goodwill the wraiths show Nakagawa is reciproc ated. - Dependi ngon the indivi dual charac ters, the y might of fer to take Nakagawa to the Hierarchy. Nakagawa declines such help. - If the Circle is bellige rent or antagoni stic, the Jade wraith simply makes graceful excuses and leaves quickly. No matter how rude the Circle wraiths become, the ir attempts to bully or intimi date Nakagawa are unproduc tive. ## SCENE Two

## HARD I N E O
- Shortly after leaving the Circle, the Jade wraith drops into a Harrowing as one of his Fetters is destr oyed suddenly (by an unknown attacker, as revealed in part three of this chron icle). The box do es not go with him into the Harrowing. - The box comes into the posses sion of the Circle, either deliv ered or found. It contains a relic wakiz asht (Japanese short sword) with a for eign sigil carved into the hilt, a page of jotted not es and a list of names and locat ions. - The not es read: 'Find optimal points; solidify all iances; look for the unblin king.'
- The list of names and locat ions refers to local Heretics and the ir Haunts. Most of the Heretics on the list are both high-Status and high-secrecy. The revela tion that the names on the list are those of Heretics should come as somet hing of a surprise to the wraiths, especi ally if the names are those of covert Heretics who already exist in you r game. - If a chara cter takes the waktz asht out of the box and keeps it on his person for more than 10 minutes of game time, he begins to accumu late Temporary Angst due to a strong taint on the weapon. This effect should not be immedia tely obvious to the chara cter, since the taint is subtle and seduc tive. The chara cter is eventu ally subject to Catharsis. ## CHOICES
- The charac ters may choose to not open the box, taking it directly to the authori ties instead. - The Circle might wait until Nakagawa comes back from his Harrowing and makes his way back to the Necrop olis, and the n try to interro gate him. This is somewhat problem atic, since Nakagawa's Fetters are far away, and who knows what kind of red tape he'll run into when he appears back in the Jade Empire? - the y open the box. If any of the charac ters have Heretic status, the y may make Static Mental Challe nges to see if the y recog nize any of the names. A few names might be known to charac ters with high Hierarchy status. Again, not all of the names should be those of recogn ized Heretics. how ever, the names are all those of Heretics. - If the Circle decides to investi gate the names itself, trying to find out what's going on, the Heretics should be diffi cult to find. Should the Circle find any of the m, the Heretics attempt to take the box and might well try to send the charac ters into Oblivion for 'knowing too much.'
- Should the group decide to head to the Hierarchy for help, it's in for a rough time. Unless one or more of the wraiths has at least two, if not three, Hierarchy Status Traits, the entire group is given the run-around until members explic itly refer to the Heretics by name or show someone the list. The Hierarchy is extre mely suspic ious: The functio nary who sees the Circle takes the box and interrog ates the charac ters inten sely. If the charac ters play the ir cards right, the Hierarchy lets the m go z but not with out setting a nigh-constant watch on the m. Clumsy or bellige rent rolepla ying gets the wraiths in serious trouble: a fight, perhaps, or attempts to imprison, enslave or even soulf orge the m. The trouble should be escap able, though, to keep the story moving. - If the charac ters hold onto the box and tell no one about it, parties from both the Heretics and the Hierarchy come looking for it -news of relics, especi ally interes ting or powerful ones, travels fast -and inter rupt anything the Circle might attempt. The Hierarchy wants the box from a purely materiali stic standp oint; it do esn't know exactly what's in it yet. The Heretics want the potenti ally damning list of names destr oyed and all wimesses elimin ated. - The Circle could go to the Renegades for protec tion. This course of action occurs at the Storyte ller's discre tion, but the Renegades may be the charac ters' best hope for physical protec tion and all ies. This install ment of the story should effecti vely end with the Circle's decision about what to do with the informa tion and the resul ting brouhaha. the se events can take all evening to play, given good rolepla ying and strong charac ters. So ends Part I of Mayday! Look for Part 11: Deploy ment in the next i s s u e of the Journal. The follo wing is a 'skin and bones' cheat-sheet of sugge sted Traits and a backgr ound sketch for Tadashi Nakagawa. ## THE AMBASSADOR

## THE SKIN

Tadashi Nakagawa either meets or is introd uced to the Circle early in this install ment of Mayday!, and his involve ment in the wraiths' afterl ives has an effect onatlof Stygia. but who is he? Attheriskofgiving away toomuch tooearly, Nakagawa is a Jade wraith on a unique and dange rous mission. He has been entru sted with a specific responsibi lity, and he do es not stop or be deterred by normal means. In life, Nakagawa was little more than what we in the 20th century would call a 'number-cruncher' or a 'bean-counter,' but he always took his work serio usly (perhaps even a bit too serio usly). In death, he is a pawn of a higher power, but his mission is of the utmost import ance to him. not hing sways him from his course; not even the Harrowing he under goes when one of his Fetters is destr oyed. ## THE BONES

## p E R s o NAL INFO RMATI o N

Name: Tadashi Nakagawa

Life: Minor Functio nary

Death: Heart Disease

Nature: Bureau crat

Demeanor: Architect

Regret: Never expre ssed love to his wife and son

## STATISTICS

Mentat ltam, Cunng DiDisld Paintanlh

Social Traits:Charming, Dignified, Diplom atic, Persua sive, Persua sive

Physical Traits:Athletic, Dextrous, Nimble, Resilient, Wiry

Abilitie:ureau racy, nigmas, Etquette, aw, Martial Arttalth, utfu

## ARCANOI

Intima tion (all innates): The Gleaming, Deep Desiring, The Craving

Moliate (all innates): Sculpt, Martialry

Outrage (all innates): Wraithg rasp

Usury (all innates): Transfer, Charit able Trust, Exchange Rate

## PASSIONS

Protect the Empire (Duty) Advise Wife and Extended Family (Love) Keep Records of Court History (Duty) Gain Power (Greed)

## EETTFRS

[not e: One Fetter, the teacup, is destr oyed during the course of the game.] Brush with which he wrote at work

Ancestor shrine in his home

Teacup given by his great-grandfa ther

## BACKC~ROUNDS

Jade Court Status 2 Living Family 1 Wraith Family 2

NAKAC~AWA'S p '0 ( S H A D O W)

The Perfectio nist

## DARK PASSIONS

Destroy Family (Hate)

Undermine Empire (Spite)

## THORNS

Spectre Prestige Shadow Trait: Brutal

## ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD QUFSTIONS

The constant evolu tion of Mind's Eye the atre bnngs new and differentquest ions to the game. this month, we tacklequest ions and comments about Laws of Elysium and the elder game, as well as a couple of general Trait quest ions. Send you r Mind's Eye the atre quest ions to: White Wolf

Attn: Mi n d ' s Eye the ati-eloumal, Freque ntly Asked Quesaons 735 Park North Blvd. carlaw hite-wolf. com

Q In JAWS of Elysium, Master-Level Discipline sare avail able to eighth or lower genera tion charac ters. In the tabletop game, vampires get the really powerful Discipl ines only i f the y're seventh genera tion or lower. What gives? A: Some troupes may wish to experi ment with the new Master-Level Discipl ines with out adding elder powerho uses to the game -for the m, eighth- (or even ninth-) genera tion Kindred are good can didates for the se powers. how ever, if a large game hosts a few true elders (seventh or lower genera tion), it's gener ally a good idea to keep the Master Discipl ines in the hands of those puissant charac ters. the se powers are supposed to be rare and for bidding, after all! The key is to make sure that the Discipl ines are avail able if you want to use the m, with out making the m commonly avail able to everyone. Q. The Thaumat urgy Path of Conjuring says that the vampire can't summon anything larger or heavier than himself, inclu ding a LAW rocket, but LAW rockets are n't that big. Also, the Perman ency power says that Conjured items must be returned physic ally to the ir place of or igin, when those items are really just created from not hing. A: The not e about LAW rockets is perti nent to game balance. A conjurer can generate a stake, a sword or a vial of blood, but some things should be too diffi cult to make (like high explos ives or nuclear weapons). A good rule of thumb is to require the conjurer to have enough Abilities to actually build the item in question. Thus, the thaumat urge can't conjure a pistol with out a few levels of Repair and Firearms; he needs a lot of Demolit ions and Science to make explos ives. of course, simple items (like wooden stakes, metal bars and rocks) can be conjured with out any special Abilities. Permane ntly conjured items are fully real and solid. The confu sion here comes from the fact that mortal Conjuring (see Laws of the Hunt) simply moves objects with out creating things. An object moved with mortal Conjuring must be taken back to its place of or igin if the conjurer intends to return it. Conver sely, an object created with the Thaumat urgy Path of Conjuring has no 'place of or igin' since it was created from not hing. ## Q: How come the new Discip line level for Chimer stry looks suspicio usly like one of the old ones in Laws of the Night? A: Because the minor differ ence is in motion. Illusions created with Fata Morgana (second Basic Chimer stry) can not move; the y are who lly static, though the y can affect all of the senses. Illusions made with higher levels of chimer stry can appear to move and interact with the ir surround ings. ## Q: How come modem gargo yles can't fly while Dark Ages ones can? A: Did we leave that line out? Silly us. Modem gargo yles do have wings, and the y can fly. The gargoyle's flight speed depends on his level of the Viscera tika Discip line; each level of the Discip line all ows the gargoyle to fly 5 mph. ## Q: Can an Assamite with high levels of Occult Influence use that capacity to leam other sects' rituals to get Thaumat urgy rituals using his Quietus Discip line? A: What a strange and convol uted path. No, Quietus is not suffic ient to learn rituals aside from the special Assamite ones. Thaumat urgy do es not all ow someone to leam Assamite rituals with out Quietus, for that matter. ## Q: Are Bladed Hands (from the ritual of the same name) visible? A: No. When you invoke Bladed Hands, you become capable of cutting through things with you r hands, but you r limbs do not appear to change at all. do n't pick you r nose. ## Q: So what's the real skinny on Spirit Thaumat urgy? According to some sources, it works on wraiths. According to others, it's Umbral spirits. Which one is it? A: Spirit Thaumat urgy is designed to contact and control Umbral spirits. of course, only tainted spirits would ever deal will ingly with a vampire. For the sake of expan ding possibili ties, Storytel lers may all ow Spirit Thaumat urgy to function against wraiths, but in general that's the purview of the Necrom ancy Discip line. ## Q: How come the re's no Master-Level Thaumat urgy in Laws of Elysium? A: Well, technic ally, the re is no Master Leve1 in the Discipli neof Thaumat urgy. 'What, the n-' you may ask, '-is the meaning of the article on page 41?' In that article, we use the term Master-Level more as a representa tive stroke than as a techn ical term. A master thaumat urge (like a pontifex, for instance) is more likely to have branched out into several diffe rent Thaumaturg ical paths (or even created his own) rather than perfe cted one to a higher level. how ever, the re are some rituals that are avail able to only the most trusted, the most wise and the most respe cted scholars of the clan, and those scholars can be consid ered thaumatu rges of the Master Level. ## Q: OK, so if the re are Lasombra antit ribu, how come the re are no Tzimisce untit ribu in Laws of Elysium, just Old Clan Tzimisce? A: Because the re's maybe somet hing like one Tzimisce in the Camarilla. Tzimisce antit ribu are about as common as Salubri, and as such the ir differe nces from the main clan can't be covered by generali ties -the y are unique and extre mely bizarre individ uals. ## Q: Why did n't the Ogham Discip line from The Long Night get an extra level in Laws of Elysium? A: Because Ogham is already a dying Discip line in 1198, and its powers are limited. If you are absolu tely fired up to have an additi onal level (perhaps for balance purposes), try this: ## I N S C R I B E T H E C U R S E ( S E C O N D I N T E R M E D I A T E )

The Lhiannan traces runic glyphs of a foe's true name on her body, thus gaining power over that enemy. You must know you r foe's true name, and you must expend two Blood Traits to trace the unusual runes. The runes must be visible to the enemy in or der to function, and you must make a Mental Challenge when you first engage you r opponent. The effects of the runes last until the runes are removed or until you suffer two health levels of damage (thus obscu ring the m). You may choose one of four effects for the runes: affec ting the body renders the victim impotent and unable to use Blood Traits; the mind causes the foe to suffer from the Negative Traits: Oblivious x2; the voice makes the target mute; and affec ting the soul makes the opponent lose all ties in tests against frenzy. You may use only one rune at a time, so you can choose only one effect and impose it against one person. (not e: This power causes Ogham to have more Intermed iate levels than Basic levels. Such is the curse of trying to learn a dying Discip line -it's hard!)

## Q: What are the Attribute Trait maximums for changel ings and wraiths in The Shining Host and Oblivion? A: In both cases, a chara cter's effec tive age comes into play. Obviously, most wraiths and changel ings won't beat up on elder vampires, so the ir Traits are not always as high... but an old and experie nced chara cter always has other tricks. For changel ings, the chara cter's seeming determ ines Trait maximums. Childl ings are limited to 10 Traits in each category except Physical, for which the y can have no more than six Traits. Wilders can have up to 12 Traits in each category, and grumps may have up to 14 Traits in each category. A child ling redcap won't bite any vampires in half, but watch out for elder trolls. Wraiths are products of self-image. A wraith's personal characteris tics are a reflec tion of the indivi dual's internal ized self-percept ions. As a result, old wraiths of ten surpass the limits of the ir meat-bodies, taking the mselves to new levels of ability. Enfants (newly dead wraiths) are limited to 10 (just dead) or 11 (dead for a few years) Traits in each category. Lemures (fairly old wraiths, maybe a few decades in age) can have up to 12 or 13 Traits, while Gaunts (centu ries-old wraiths) can have 14 or somet imes even more Traits. Players are unlikely to play wraiths older than you ng Lemures, though. A fair compro mise is to all ow a wraith chara cter to start with a limit of 10 Traits, but to improve to 11 and 12 after six months and one year of play, respecti vely. ## —THE MASOUERADEPLAY THIS CLASSIC INCLUDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO ENTER THE WORLD OF THE KINDRED. ## -LAWS OF THE NIGHTCONCENTRATE ON TH THE QUICK AND EASY POCKET-REFERENCE TO MIND'S EYE the ATRE.IT all OWS YOU TO

## -LAWSOF ELYSIUMTHIS RESOURCE IS THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO CREATING,MAINTAINING AND RUNNINGA VAMPIRE ELDER.ITALSO CONTAINS EXTENDED DISCIPLINES for THELONG NIGHT. - -LIBER DES GOULES:THE BOOK OF GHOULSSURETHREREPLENTYOFTHINGSTOOWHENYOUEDEAD,UTHEREOUFINDWHAT YOU CAN DO WHEN YOU'RE NOT QUITE DEAD. - —LAWS OF THE HUNTMORTALSARETHEPLAYTHINGSAND PUPPETS of the WORLD of DARKNESS-UNTIL the Y DECIDE TO FIGHT BACK.TAKE BACK THE NIGHT WITH LAWS OF THE HUNT. ## -THE LONG NIGHTTHE LONG NIGHT TAKESYOU INTO THE DARK MEDIEVAL WORLD OF THE I2TH CENTURY AND MAKESYOURKINDRED CHARACTER THE UNDISPUTEDMASTER of THE NIGHT. ## —LAWS OF THE WILDCOMPLETELYREVISEDINA HANDYPOCKET-SIZEDEDITION, this BOOKBRINGSTHERULES of were WOLF:the APOCALYPSETO THE LIVE-ACTION STAGE. ## -OBLIVIONHORROR of WRAITH:THE OBLIVIONANDTRANSLATES ITINTO the MIND'SEYETHEATRE SETTING. ## —THE SHINING HOSTENCHAN 1 MEN I AND Atih-OLD MYSTERY -THE WOR N G nfE DREAMING. F GLAMOUR -

## VG I.. RIE j

ND REVEIATIO i THAT TELL of I USED AS A AC

W E AND hN(

\_I\_

\_I

## EVENT HORIZON: UPCOMING LARP EVENTS

OKAY,KIDS,SMALL CONFESSION TO MAKE:this EVENT REPORT is N'T THE FRUIT OF MY OWN RESEARCH, or EVENA BUNCHOFSTUFFITOOKTHE TIMETO GATHERMYSELF.TOBE HONEST,ILIFTED EVERYTHING. TO PREVENT FURTHER PILFERING OF THIS NATURE (AND TO GIVE ME YET MORE REAL you R CONVENTIONS,GAMES AND UPCOMING EVENTS. JUST REMEMBER THIS PUBLICATION IS QUARTERLY,SO THE NEXTISSUEIS GOING TOCOVER JUNE THROUGHAUGUST.SUBMITACCORDINGLY. than KS,KIDS. ## VAMpIRE EVENTS

## NORTHWESTERNUS

Dark Necrop olis;Kitsap WA Every Saturday hatchet@cutter.sincom.com (360)874-9195

Tacoma; Tacoma,WA Second, third, fourth&amp; fifth Sunday of each month sheperd@darkdes tiny.com (253)581-8728

Of No Concerm;Eugene,OR First Saturday of each month Jmcloud@glads tone.uoregon.edu the atre of Roses;Portland,OR Every Saturday Kewi-Cee Chu, kc@csua.berkely.edu

## SOUTHWESTERN US do mainof Mountain Shadows;Provo,UT Every Tuesday Nikki Mc Coriston, N.Burton@m.cc.utah.edu (801)363-3959

Moonlight Masque rade;Marysv ille,CA Every Saturday (8pm) Jennifer you ng, kaidin@syix.com

Seattle; Seattle,WA Second and third Sunday of each month seattledo main@usa.net

Outlands;South King County,WA Second Sunday of each month tsigane@wizards.com

Nox ad Infinitum;Fairbanks,AK Every Saturday fsdck@aurora.alaska.edu

Ivory Masque;Anchorage,AK Every Monday glitter\_boy@hotmail.com

Labyrinth of Crying Shadows (Sabbat Game);Sacram ento,CA Every Friday Adam Abramson, vallomb rosa@hotmail.com

## NORTHCENTRALUS do minion of Solitude;Topeka,KS Second Saturday of each month Jeffery P. Harrin gton, harri999@geoci ties.com

## SOUTHCENTRALUS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro,AR First and third Saturday of eachm onth Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata.net (870)931-0959

Fourth Tower Falling;Dallas,TX First Saturday of each month David do ub, Brujah@gte.net (972)788-1895

Legio Noctem;Dallas,TX Third Saturday of every month Billy Lucas, will iamlucas@juno.com (972)788-1895

## THE GREAT LAKES

Shadow gate Society;St.Louis,MO Third Saturday of each month Jamie Schneider, jackon@juno.com (314)837-3640

NORTHEAST US Boston,MA First and third Saturday of each month Sean do nnelly (617)656-2891

## SOUTHEAST US

House of the Sanguine Moon;Tampa,FL Firstand third Saturday of everym onth Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail.com

Athens by Night;Athens, GA Alterna ting Saturdaysbegin ning March 13th Storyte ller List abn-st@math.gatech.edu

Blood Moon; Charle ston,SC Fourth Saturday of every month lan Betts, alisterle gare@hotmail.com

Ground Zero, Colorado Springs,CO Every other Thursday Neil Parry, cyricp@aol.com (719)687-2946

Kentucky Fried;Dallas,TX Fourth Saturday of each month Lance Gillson, nooneofconsequ ence@usa.net (972)788-1895

Eighth Legion;Dallas,TX Fifth Saturday of each month James Potter, kingsn ight@hotmail.com (972)788-1895

Bryan/College Station;B/CS,TX Second and fourth Saturdaye very month Ken Reiner tson, khr7057@unix.tamuedu

Charlest onus Ab Noctum;Charle ston,SC First two Fridays of every month Ian Betts, alisterg arle@hotmail.com

Eclipsed Moon; Charle ston,SC Third Friday of every month Ian Betts, alisterg arle@hotmail.com

## GAROU

## NORTHWEST US

Tacoma;Tacoma,WA First, thirdandf ifth Saturdayofeachm onth sheperd@darkdes tiny.com (253)581-8728

Seattle; Seattle, WA Secondand fourth Satrudayofeverym onth seattledo main@usa.net

Of No Concern;Eugene,OR Secondand fourth Saturdayofeverym onth Jmcloud@glads tone.uoregon.edu

## NOHTHCENTHALUS

Knights of Rage;Colorado Springs, CO Every other Thursday Travis Page, all mity Bob@aol.com (719)447-0399

## SOUTHCENTRAL US

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro,AR First and third Saturday of every month Tom McFarland, thomasmc@fastdata.net (870)931-0959

Fourth Tower Falling:Dallas,TX First Saturday of each month Matt Ragan, matt \_ragan@hotmail.com (972)788-1895

## SOUTHEAST US

House of the Sanguine Moon;Tampa,FL Secondandfo urth Saturdayofeachm onth Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail.com

Olde Guard;Anchorage,AK Every Sunday Tom Alexander, nightsta lker@custo mcpu.com

Bryan/College Station;B/CS,TX Secondand fourth Saturday of each month Ken Reiner tson, khr7057@unix.tamu.edu

Onyx Illumin atus;Charle ston, SC First and third Sunday of each month Ian Betts, alisterle gare@hotmail.com

## OTHERS UNSPECIFIEDAND MIXED GAMES

Nox Imperium;Longview,WA Every Monday of each month katzmeow@kalama.com

Trails End Troupe;Salem,OR Second and fourth Sarurday of every month

Coordina trix@hotmaill.com

Outlands; South King County,WA Fourth Saturday of each month tsigane@wizards.com