I

I

THE LIVE-ACTION GAMING MAGAZINE

I i

## Min Linds Eye JOURNAL

1 1

KS

## ML ind s Eye Iheatre OURNAL 一

BECAUSE THE MIND'S EYE NEVERBLINKS

WELCOMETO THE MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL, the MAGAZINETHATPICKSUPWHEREOTHER MIND'SEYEPUBLICATIONSLEAVEOFF. ## our first is SUE PRESENTS: - LIVE-ACTIONRULESFORPLAYINGPUMONCA
- ADAPTATIONSof theTRUEBLACKHANDTOMET
- WORLDOFDARKNESSFICTION
- DEADLYARCANETREMERE RITUALS
- TOPICALISSUESONLIVE-ACTIONROLEPLAYING AND MORE! THE JOURNAL PROVIDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TOMAKE YOUR MIND'S EYE the ATRE CHRONICLES MORE DIVERSE, COMPLEXANDCOMPLETE! WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE? c

A

## CREDITS

Authors: Charles Bailey, Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Shane De Freest, Jess Heinig and Lindsay Woodcock

Developer: Carl Bowen

Editor: Ken Cliffe

Art Director: Rich Thomas

Photographer: J. P. Rhea

Front and Back Cover Design: Matt Milberger

Layout and Typesetting: Matt Milberger

## SPECIAL than KS and rew 'Why are you talking?' Bates, for making me feel like part of the family. Rich 'Fed-Ex' Dansky, for exploiting an intern who can't pack a box. Ed 'Two Fatal Errors' Hall, for giving me a chance anyway. Ken 'Elephant Man' Cliffe, for m y second editing test. And for liking peanuts. Jess 'Invisible Gryphons' Heinig, for at least giving me something to work with. Justin R. 'I'm sexy' Achilli, for making the Sabbat Guide... interesting. And to Phil Brucato, all is on Sturms, Cary Goff, Ian Lemke and Jane Palmer, for all the wonders you have yet to discover. 0 1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction with out the written permission of the publisher is expressly for bidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension and World of Darkness are registered tradeQJRKIJON, CA 30 0 2 1 USA marks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. were wolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, were wolf the Wild West, Trinity, Mind's Eye the atre Journal, L a w s of the Night, Savage West, L a w s of the Wild, L a w s of the W y l d West, Laws of the Hunt, Oblivion, Antagonists, Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand and The Shining Host are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted b y White Wolf Publishing, Inc. The mention of or reference to any company or product in the se pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and the mes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion i s advised. Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller PRINTED IN THE USA. BECAUSETHEMIND'SEYENEVERBLINKS

## TABLEOF CONTENTS

| Anotefrom me on the purpose and goals of this magazine. | 4 |
| UP from THE PIPES “Who am I?Why am I here？" | 5 |
| THE CURRENT THINKING An opinion for um from Mind's Eye players on is sues of interest. | 7 |
| DEADGUY SPEAKS are gularcolumnfrom Rich Dansky, for merMETdeveloper, nprettymuchwhatever feels like talking about. | 12 |
| ENOCHIAN MYSTICISM Rulesandsuggestionsonworkingthefearsome Talmahe Raintoyourlive-action Vampirechronicles. | 17 |
| FRONTIER FELINES: PUMONCAFORWYLD WEST 27 The Garou are not alone in the Savage West. Other feral guardians patrol the Pure Lands. | |
| MASTER-LEVEL'THAUMATURgY RITUALS what to teach the Tremerewhoknowseverything. | 41 |
| COMBINED DISCIPLINESfor the long night A deadly blend of mysticalpowersmakesvampires the undisputed lords of the Dark Ages. | 51 |
| FICTION:“ANY MOTHER'SCHILD" by yours Truly. | 61 |
| MAYDAY! PART I: AMBASSADOR A story line to include in your Oblivion chronicle that will impact all of Stygia. | 69 |
| FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS | 74 |
| EVENT HORIZON | 78 |

## welcometothe Mind's eue the atrejournal! Well, kidsthisisourfirstissueof the Journal and myfirst attemptatactually developinganything otherthan Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, so Ibetyou're all wondering exactlywhatyouvegothere.Friendsandgamers, letmetellyou, you'vegotoneofthebest ideastocometolive-actionroleplaying(LARPing, for thosewhoarebrand-spanking-new to the genre)since the releaseof Lawsofthe Night. the Journal is a quarterly(that'sonce every three monthsfor those of you newto the magazinegenre)publicationdedicated tofillinginthegapsinyour White WolfLARP environment.Weofferrulesfornewcharactertypes, or iginalstorylinestoworkintoyour chronicles, guidesforkeepingyourgamesundercontrolandrunningsmoothly, and rules updatesyouwon't find in any other Mind's Eyerelease.Plus, you'll find answers tothe questions that have plaguedyour chronicles(Why can't gargoylesfly now when they could inthe Dark Ages?), or iginal Worldof Darknessfiction, and columns from thosewho've been the reyetsurvivedtotell the tale.the Journalispackedwithfacts and guides that expanduponwhat'spublished in the METbooks. In this is sue, we take a look behind the scenes with the Tal'mahe'Ra(the True Black Hand), into the Pure Landsof the Savage Westattheferocious Pumonca tribeof Bastet, and into the veryjawsofthearcanetounearthsomepowerful occultsecretsknowntoonlythemost powerfulandwise Tremere(Now, if only I can getmy hands ona Lupine's skin....).And that's just a sampleofwhat'sinstoreforyou here.We'vealsogotan Oblivionadventure that will rockyour who leshadowedworldalookatwhatmadevampiresthetruelordsofthe Dark Ages, and more. Infuture ssueswell lookintoroleplaying or ganizationsthat support Mind's Eye （the re are avariety of live-actionclubs out the re), how tokeep"problem players"under control, waystomakeyourMETchroniclesmorerealisticin and outofgame, and anythingelseyoumightneed toround outyour live-actionchronicle. And you can helpmake the Journal evenbetter.Send us letters onyouropinions about the stateof live-actionroleplaying today.Sendusquestions about the featuresand rulesyouseehere, and about the brokenrules you findelsewhereinMET.Send us horror stories of gamesgonewrong and how yourcharactersfixed the m.We'reinterested inall aspectsof live-actionroleplaying, and wewant toknowwhatyou think. Stick around The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre;we've got somethingforeverybody.and ifwedon'thaveityet, letusknow.Wellgetitforyou. Carl Bowen, Developer carl@white-wolf.com White Wolf Attn:Mind's Eye the atre Joumal Developer 735Park North Blud Suite128

USA

## UP FROM THE PIPES by yours Truly all that saidaboutthemagaineletmetellyouabitaboutmyself Afterall, the resnly somuchtheseitalicizedintro-headerscanrevealaboutme.o, for onetimeonly, ougetthe insidescooponhow Ibecame developer of the Mind's Eye the atre Journal.Ifyoure interestedintheenthrallingstoryofhow Igotmyjobat White Wolfinthefirstplace, check outmybioatourwebsite(http://www.white-wolf.com). Okay, so Igotintothisbyhittingmyfriendswith low-gradeplumbing supplies ontheweekend.Itsbeenalongandconvolutedroad from the re tohere, but inany case, here Iam, developingalive-actionmagazinestraightfromthe source.How did I do it?I scarcelyknowmyself anymore. My introduction toroleplaying（live-actionand tabletop)came in late high school in the for m of one large, tape-wrapped piece of padded PVCpipe.Onmy way outof the school parkinglot one afternoon, Inoticed two acquaintances hackingviciously away at each otherwithidentically ineffectiveweapons.I had to stop and inquire as towhat the heck the setwowould-be combatants thought they were do ing. Turns out they were practicing for a roleplaying"event" that weekend in which the ywould assume the personas of characters the yhaddesigned, the n lay into the ranksofvillainousgoblins, ogresandprettymuchanybodyelsewholooked at the mwitha particularly sinister cast."It'skinda like AD&amp;D, but you get to actually swing the sword yourself,' they informed me. 'And you throw beanbags at each other, too.'

I, in my infinite wisdom at the time, responded, 'AD@D? What's that, a Dungeons € 4 Dragons knock-of f? How obvious can you get?'

Deciding the n that perhaps sword-and-sorcery-type LARPs were not exactly my bag, my acquaintances told me that they participated in another game in which all conflicts and confrontations were resolved by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors -that there wasn't so much of the socking-each-other-with-the-padded-pipes business. That type of game seemed a little more my speed, so they loaned me a battered copy of Vampire: The Masquerade as 'reference material,' and of f I went. Unfortunately, I fell out of touch with my two erstwhile gamer buddies shortly after returning their book to the m, and I did n't do much roleplaying until college (though other friends of mine and I did make our own padded swords and hack at each other when the need -and our raging, unrequited hormones -over took us and we had to vent or die). In college, I got a slightly better education in the fine points of tabletop roleplaying ('Boy, this When Will You Rage anthology is cool. I wonder what it's like to b e one of the se were wolves....'), and I discovered a troupe of live-action garners on campus. I'd actually been in a Vampire tabletop game or two by this point, so naturally I was ready to go. I spent my first couple of live-action games wandering from character concept to character concept until I happened upon so me thing I liked and stuck with it. I was concurrently involved in increasingly more complex and mature tabletop roleplaying games, and I was thoroughly hooked By the end of my senior year. I loved the World of Darkness, favored Vampire and were wolf, and adored the live-action expression of those two games. So, after college, on a whim, I sent my r6sum6 to White Wolf (among other publishing companies across the state) and waited to see if there might be a job for me. As luck would have it, my gaming experience (and my preference for White Wolfs material) complemented my editing skills, and I landed a job as an editor. Three short months later, my manager (orderfishinkanadian, Hew Cliffe, as I call him when he's well out of earshot) offered me the chance to develop this quarterly. It's a perfect match, actually. I've come a long way from the 'How in the world could you have a die with only four sides?' high schooler to the publisher-gamer I am now. Likewise, M E T has come a long way from its boxed-set roots. The game and its systems will continue to change, and as I grow and change with it, I'll keep you all up to date. If you have questions, comments, advice, death threats (or pretty much what ever), let me know. I'm always here, 24 hours aday (though I only answer e-mail in an eight-hour block between 9: OO and 5:00), and I'd love to hear from you. Carl Bowen carl@white-wolf. com

## THF CURRFNT THINKINCj

Ah.., conflict. Ifnothingelse, that'swhatthisregularcolumn is for. Sortofacross betweenaround-tablediscussionandaWWFcage-match, this is theplacetohashout is suesregarding Mind's Eye, from licensing torule-brokennesstoLARPing style. Give meyoupinionsreondtopinionouseehrebribmejusttogetouameinit, what ever. Justkeepitrelativelycleanandstayoff the bad side of thosewithwhomyou disagree. Afterall, that keen-edgedrapierwitisdesigned for eachothers'argumentsand opinions, not for each others'personal lives. l'm never sure what sparks the se discussions. The first couple of letters involve the pros and cons of running an e-mail list about your LARP, between sessions. I found the second topic brewing on an e-mail list based on"Athens by Night, anindependent, White Wolf-inspired LARPin Georgia. The topic, in its barest form, is simply this: Is it better to be a"sanctioned"LARPor an independent one, and why. And away we go.... [Ane-mail] list is a goodway tokeep tabsonwhat'sgoingon, and which way the gameisheading. lso, itcanprovidesomensightintoothercharacters, and keepyourinterest upbetweengames. It is also invaluableforkeepingincontact with otherplayers in order toplot and scheme. I thinkthelistdoubles as a harpy networksometimesaswelbecausepeopleargueonit, and saystupidthingsand the ngetflamed onit, or sing the praises of someworthy character. My Vampire LARP] do esn'treally have any harpies, and I think the list helps fill the void created By their absence. Ginnie Copley

## I alsoreceiwed: Iwould liketogoonrecordassayingthat Ilikeseeingrules-changediscussions onthelist.Itkeepsmefrom askingthe Storytellersthesame questionsanother playerhas asked.this saves the Storytellers timewhich they can puttobetter use plotting new ways to confound [usl. PS:If it gets annoying, the re's always the delete key. Jason Dilling

## And onto topic two... To the Storytellers of"Athens by Night,"

Why in the name of all that is (or is not) holy have you adopted this overcomplicated system of numbers, proportions of numbers to each otherandstatistics that sacrifices roleplaying (and thus the entire purpose of LARP... which contrary to popular belief is NOT to 'beat shit up') for the ability to create characters who are more complicated than they are in the tabletop games? Why not use some facade of 'realism' (used in quotes because it is, after all, roleplaying) and get Camarilla-certified so you can be intelligent roleplayers and not absurd rules-mongers? I know lots of great unsanctioned games that are good because the roleplaying is good, not because lots of big vampires run around and diablerize each other. Paul Daniel Bond

The following responses folloru the basic e-mail reply for mat of cite the or igin al text aside and arguing point by point. ## Mister Bond, Why in the name of all that is (or is not) holy have you adopted this overcomplicated system that sacrifices the roleplaying (and thus the entire purpose of LARP... )? So we should jump on the Mind's Eye the atre bandwagon and just say to hell with clearly defined rules? The live-action environment is, if anything, more complicated than tabletop. It demands a more comprehensive rules system. Why not use some facade of 'realism' (used in quotes because it is, after all, roleplaying) and get Camarilla-certified so you can be intelligent roleplayers and not absurd rules-mongers? So since we're not in the Camarilla, we're not cool? Talk about complex. I for one don't want to have to certify my plotlines just so I can become one with White Wolfs fan club. Steve Mc do nald -Athens by Night Storyteller

After a personal e-mail back from Bond (in bold). ## [Daniel], I have played with both the Mind's Eye the atre system and our system. I under stand that one of thereasons that Mind's Eye combat is so poorly defined is because combat is discouraged. I think this is a bad idea, as combat is, in many ways, inevitable in the World of Darkness. Dark for ces collide and destroy one another. Part of the problem here is that a lot of what would be back ground in a tabletop game (behind-the-scenes strikes by underlings/ lackeys/ ghouls) must be carried out by players in live-action. You can't just stick your head in the sand and say 'combat sucks' and hope it won't happen. Roleplaying is the center of anything we do. But if you leave a section of the rules poorly defined simply because you don't like it, the n it will come back to haunt you. Tehehe. You make me sound like an elitist and that makes me smile. The Camarilla wants you to certify plotlines so bullshit like rampant Masquerade breaches (and I KNOW you have a massive problem with that, to the point that a just i car threatened to kick you out of the Camarilla if they weren't stopped), I

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL unrealistic gaming (your disproportionate number of Kindred, your Nosferatu prince, your propensity for including were rats, were spiders and lots of other rare creatures into your game), and general stupidity. - 1) We, as Storytellers, sentanarchon(not ajusticar) into the game inthelast session. 2. 2 ) ( h e of the things that makes Athens by Night an exciting and interesting game is the fact that we break out of the for m that every other Vampire LARP has set. How many times can you come into a seven-clan game with a Ventrue prince and little or no outside supernatural presence (which seems to be stock-in-trade for every other LARP in the who le wide world) and not get bored? We're an alternative. Part of being an alternative is do ing things differently. Once word of Steve and Daniel's argument got out to the greater Athens by Night e-mail list, others registered the ir opinions. 1' 1 1 jump in here: The point of a LARP is just that: to roleplay in live action. Period. The purpose is not to 'beat shit up' (I'll say this once again as you ignored it the first time. If it were, you would be right. Since it is not, I am right. The purpose [of Athens by Night] is not just to roleplay. Ifwe wanted that, we would conduct a play. [ABN] is a game, as well as a roleplaying event. The goal is to balance the roleplaying and game aspects. This is hard, and different LARPs strike a different balance. But that do esn't make one LARP more 'right' than another. It's just different, that's all. Richard Coleman

## And so did others. [Mister Bond], Roleplaying is almost entirely based on the non-rules related aspects of the game. Whether the rules say I must play Rock-Paper-Scissors to do challenges, or play entire games of Monopoly to do so, I can roleplay what ever I desire. I can be asmarmy Ventrue car dealer or I can be a pissy, stupid Scottish kilt-wearin' Brujah.... ( and thus the entire purpose of LARP... which contrary to popular belief is NOT to 'beat shit up')... Purpose of a LARP? Who says so... Yahweh? What if in the course of roleplaying, I decide to beat shit up? Am I not all owed? It's my shit, after all. Besides, being Camarilla-certified is no guarantee of being an intelligent roleplayer. Roleplaying (and rules-mongering) is in the individual player, not the rules. The Masquerade Second Edition and Laws of the Night are each twice the length of AIT's rules [AIT i s another independent LARP run in Atlanta], and I know we are at least neck and neck with ABN. If you need your rules to be custom tailored as your roleplayingcrutch, feel free to find agame that suits you. Meanwhile, I don't tell the Iranians how to run the ir country... because I don't live the re and they don't directly affect any of my interests. Why do es this seem to bother you so? Scott Mc Daniel, Atlanta Interactive the ater

## And others... ## Dear Mr.Paul Daniel Bond, - 1.how can rules make people beat shit up?Remember guns don't kill people; people who shoot people with guns kill people. - 2.the mostimportant thing about LARPing is not roleplaying but is having fun.I can only assume we must be having fun since the re are always 100+ people atourgames. - 3.Of coursewe have someviolence(maybea little bit more than that) but what do you thinkwill happenwhen you have100+vampires in one city? - 4.Asfor"realismwe are a bunch of peoplepretending tobevampires.How much morereal can weget? - 5.the re are many different types of people inthisworld.Some like to"beat shitup';othersliketoroleplay.Our Storytellershavenotmadesomeworld for just One typeof person, but for anyonewho is nterestedinroleplayingorbeatingshit up,"or any other such aspects of LARP. will iam Boyer

## And finally... [Daniel], First,I have playedinboth the Athensgame and other LARPs.Whileat first glanceABN'srulesmay appearexcessivelycomplex, inrealitythesystemweuses lesscomplexduringactualplay.Toplayacharacter, itisonlynecessarytoknowhow the rulesapplyto yourcharacter.the pointsystemweuse in placeof the vocal Trait systemiseasiertoteachtonewplayersfastertousetogeneratenewcharactersand easier tokeep trackof than the Trait system in Mind's Eye the atre. Second, the attacksonour Storytellersarecompletelyunfounded.Ihavebeen playingtabletopandLARPsforover14yearsasbothagamemasterandplayer.The peoplewhorun ourgame are bynomeanspower-hungry.the re are someviolent characters in the game, but generally those people are designed as anarchs, somethingeverycampaignneeds.the quality of the Storytellers'workishigh and the valueoftheircontributionshouldnotbedenigratedbysomeonewhohasnever attended a performance.Awise criticsees the play before hewrites the review. the re is more than enough roomformany variantgames with in the genre.In fact, Athens is currently the subject of a scholarly study inlive-action the ater. With all duerespect, Jason Dilling

## So what do es Daniel Bond have tosaytoall this? the beauty of the Mind's Eye the atre system is that it givesyou freedom. Gonearethedaysofyorewhenweallsatwith GMscreensthatdescribed countless modifiers, clarifications and random-monstergenerators.All the crap is stripped away, and you can concentrateonjustenjoyingyourroleplayingexperience.ive action of fers you the chance to do more than say,"My character hides behind a tree."By God, you actually hidebehind that tree. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL the reason the Trait-based system is superior is simple:It actually encourages peopletonotget socaughtupin the rules.I for one hated the daysof referencing the book every single time a rules-related question arose.With the Trait-based system, you bid, youresolve and you move on. Character creationinthesystem enablesyou tofleshout yourcharactermore than you evercould in a number-based system.What's the difference between one characterwitha Manipulationof5and anotherwith4?Untilyougetout the reand find the words that describeyourcharacter, the reisnone.the Mind's Eyesystem is simple, it'seasyanditmakesformoreclearlydefinedcharacters!Nomorecomplex numbergames that catertothe accountantinthegroup.Now anyonecanjoinalong and not fearthatsomewell-versedruleswhorewill takeadvantageof him. Ilike the factthateverythinglin Mind's Eyelisn't defined inextensive books. People should worry aboutcharacter, not rules.Myfoes[in this debate]seemto believe that the rulesmake the man.If the reisn'ta clear definition of every gun's kick, every explosion'sblastradius, very sword'sexactlngth, and everypersons time torunthemile, Ithinkit'sagood thing.Ifyou wantdetailedrulesandspelled outreality, play tabletop or do mathproblemsforfun. ## FURTHER FUEL

Two wery different wiewpoints; two opinions with the same answer. Both say their system leaves the chaff behind and makes way for roleplaying.... What's your opinion? Are the MET rules too complicated, oversimplified or just right? Ho w far can we reasonably expect you to stretch our 'Cjolden Rule' to adapt the rules for your setting? How far i s too far before you lose the roleplaying and Storytelling aspects that make our games what they are? Let me hear from you! you can e-mail youranswers to the se points, or opinionsonsubjects of your choosing to carlawhite-wolf. com, or mil them to: White Wolf Publishing Inc. Attn: Mind's Eye the atre Journal

735 Park North Blud. Suite 128

USA

## DFADCjUY -SPFAKS by Richard E.Dansky

Rich has been a part of White Wolf since just shortly before Christ crawkd from the primordial ocean at Cyprus. He has developed Mind's Eye the atre, Wraith: The Oblivion and Vampire: The Dark Ages. watch forthis column to show case Rich's unique insight, wit, observations on life in general, and (should we be so lucky) his views on Mind's Eye the atre development. In his first column, Rich relates the tak of how Mind's Eye came into its current incamtion. ## CHAPTER ONE: YOUR LAWS, ## MY TRICEPS

It all started because my arm got tired. Honest. I couldn't make this stuff up if I wanted to. Itwas November, 1995. I'd just come on board as the developer for Wraith: The Oblivion and Mind's Eye the atre, and I was about to get shipped of f to my first convention appearance. The place: Kansas City. The convention: Shauncon. the reason I was there: I was the first developer our con-support guy saw (the others having heard his ominous footsteps and gone to ground until he had seized another victim. Picture the dinosaur sequence in Fantasia -the one in which the stegosaurus gets it in the neck -and you've pretty much got the idea). The folks at Shauncon were very friendly and helpful, and they got in touch with me well before the event to see what I'd be interested indoing, what I'd like to see, and so on; they were perfect hosts. As part of that conversation, they mentioned that they had a long-running Masquerade game, a chapter of which would take place at the convention, and that they'd written a special-guest part that they'd love to have me play. So if I could just see my way clear to popping into character for A few hours Saturday night.... 'Sure,' I said. 'It sounds great! Let me know what sort of character it is, so I can bring appropriate costuming.'

Well, that's what I said out loud. Internally, I was screaming. 'What are you do ing? What i f y o u make a m i s t a k e? You'we newer played anything besldes a Tor&amp; with a goofy accent! What i f y o u screw up -they'll lose all respect for you and the product line! AAAAAGGHHHH!'

(Mind you, this who le thing took place before I was informed that White Wolfdevelopers are supposed to spend conventions drunk and surly at hotel bars, as opposed to playing in games. I have since had my misapprehension corrected and can now be found at most major conventions sitting in the corner of the local watering hole, guzzling various unidentifiable fluids and channeling m y inner black-clad hooligan. He likes Amaretto Sours and Purpom hard cider, in case you feel like bribing him.)

So I for tified myself for the potentially traumatic experience. Armed with the proper equipment ( IO-foot pole, a do zen iron spikes, 50 feet of rope and a.22 automatic), I descended into the 'Out of Print' pile in the warehouse in hopes of excavating a copy of the Players Kit. Why? Because I was going to be playing a Giovanni -and at the time we had no rules for playing Giclvanni in print. Oops. 'This is probably so me thing I should rectify,' I said to myself, even as I hacked my way through the tentacled nasties who guarded the piles of books I needed. Emerging victorious, I sat do wn in my of fice with my prize and a copy of Masquerade 2nd Edition (not to mention Antagonists and, for some unknown reason, The Book of Props) and started reading. My goal was to memorize every single word of all of those books before I got on the plane for Kansas City. So I read. And I read. And the n I read some more. My e-mail account clogged. My mailbox overflowed. Dirty dishes in my sink at home began breathing, developed language skills and voted to secede from m y apartment. In the end, though, it was worth it -I managed to get every single word of those suckers do wn. I was a walking encyclopedia of rules knowledge. Headheldhigh, I tookmyseaton the aircraft, settled inwitha Thomas Ligottishortstory collection, and let the friendly skies convey me to where I was going. And so me where over Tennessee, I managed to for get every blessed word I'd read. So, to make a long story short (too late, I know), I arrived safely in KC, but as a virtual tabula rasa of live-action information. The game rolled around. I did the only thing I could. I tucked the entire MET library under my arm for reference, muttered a swift prayer and went of f to play. (No one really needs to hear about the steakhouse meeting with the vegetarian who'd thrown his front do or onto the fire place for warmth, the funky chickeneers at the wedding next do or, the bar band's salsa-flavored rendition of Van Morrison's Greatest Hits, or about the half-do zen or so gamers who m I found strewn across my hotel room, asleep, Saturday morning. Caveat: I'd never met any of them before, I haven't seen any of them since, I have no idea what any of their names were, and the only concrete fact I have about the matter was the knowledge that at least three of them snored like a goddamned bandsaw factory on swing shift.)

Five hours later, I was back in my hotel room with one not iceable difference. (Okay, two -I'd cleaned the gamers out.) My right arm, the one I'd used to carry the books, was about two inches longer than the left, and it felt like someone had emphatically and repeatedly mistaken it for a large, pinkish piece of linguine. Oh, the game had gone well -I'd wandered into town, made my introductions, acquired the ridiculously powerful magical who sits that I was supposed to remove from play, mucked with a few of the more uppity players and the n strolled of f into the night. My mission was accomplished, my work was do ne, and I'd managed to avoid being asked any questions I couldn't answer. But boy, was my arm tired. The longer I sat there thinking about it, the more I realized that the situation simply wasn't satisfactory. The books were heavy and awkward, and they simply looked out of place next to costuming. Players who had made the investment in tuxedos or evening gowns, or even just the investment of time and effort to look right for their characters, deserved better than to be weighted do wn with a stack of 8.5-by-1 I-inch green books. The old for mat was simply too obtrusive, and it did too much to shatter the game's illusion. Besides, my arm was tired. I had no intention of ever lugging that many books around forthat long in that heavy a jacket again. (Costuming not e for all you would-be Giovanni out there: Black's a great color for dressing up, but when the only black clothes you have are wool, it's okay to vary things a little. Even in November. Trust me.)

So I started thinking. Problem#l was that the books were physically awkward. Problem #2 was that necessary material wasn't available to players. Problem #3 was that, and I have to be honest here, the rules did n't work terribly well. (Yeah, I know, they're still not perfect, but we're trying here. Honest.) Scattered over three books and two editions, drawn from do zens of sources, the rules of ten contradicted one another, making it necessary for folks to tote around hundreds of pages worth of Photoshop-bespangled reference material. so me thing clearly had to be do ne. So Sunday night, I sat do wn with the two gentlemen who ran the game I'd played in, and over friendly conversation, I floated the idea. 'What would you guys think,' I said -'and this is just an idea, mind you -of a pocket-sized rulebook for Mind's Eye the atre? None of the storytelling material, minimal back ground -just the rules in a size that you could carry with you and that you could tuck into a pocket when you weren't using it.'

For what it's worth, they liked the idea. I can't tell you exactly what they said (partially because I'm not sure I can quote it accurately, partially because the things I can remember to quote accurately aren't necessarily printable in a family roleplaying journal), but they liked it. If they had n't, I probably would have scrapped the who le idea and gone back to figure out how many curls I would have needed to do in order to prep for the next game. But armed with a mandate from folks who were elbow-deep in the game, and who knew what they needed to make their games run more smoothly, I could go back home and set up the project (that is, after the incident with the massive hangover, the Star Wars' line designer, the ship's bell and the approximately 4000 miniatures). it took a while, and it tooksomeconvincing. The ideaofapocketguide-justrules, not hing else -was so contrary to what we'd do ne before that some folks were skeptical of it. I knew the idea was a good one, though, and once I not ed to People in High Places that we wouldn't be incurring any new writing costs on the book, I got the green light. That's when the fun started. Initially, the idea of the book was simply to cut and paste the rules files from the old books into the new one. It would be easy, fast and useful -and it would save m y sanity, because I was working on Wraith 2nd Edition at the same time. Unfortunately, this simple plan ran into A few snags. First of all, the files for the Players Kit were nowhere to be found. While I could do with out the print specs for the blood capsules that were included in the or igin al box, I did sort of need the files for the lesser clans, their Disciplines and all of the other crunchy goodness that needed to go into the book. Eventually the diskette with therequired files turned up. (If I remember correctly, it was in the Marketing department, filed with the details of the White Wolf Microbrewery idea that than kfully never got of f the ground, and was labeled 'I Gotcher Barney do omWADs Right Here.' But I could be mistaken.) Pulling up the files led to problem number two: they were amess. I mean, I knew there were A few discrepancies between The Masquerade and the Vampire Players Guide, but once I started digging in, I realized that more work was needed. A lot more work. As a matter of fact, so much work was needed that I had no idea where to start. there was only one thing to do: Go back to the source. I bundled myselffor the Atlanta winter (yep, that meant a longsleeve shirt and jeans) and headed of f to thered Light Caf6, where the local Vampire LARP crowd hung out on Tuesday nights. I sat do wn at a table and snagged random passersby, asking them what they felt needed changing; scoping out which rules needed to be cleaned up or explicated better. Hoo boy, did I get anearful. Three hours later, I staggeredoutunder the weightofmynotes. the n, masochist that I am, I fired up the computer and asked the same questions of friends who played M E T all over the continent. theresponse was avalanche-like in its volume, intensity and ambient temperature. People had a lot of concerns. Even worse, a great many of those concerns and proposed fixes contradicted each other. It was hopeless. So I did what any sane man would do in that sort of situation. I screamed for help. Help arrived in the form of Editrix (no, that's not a dirty word, and get your minds out of the gutter, you filthy-headed brutes) Cynthia Summers, who se experience with actual Mind's Eye game play dwarfed mine, and who had long since set herself up as the Cerberus of M E T. not hing that saw print for the line escaped her baleful gaze -which was a good thing for me. We sat do wn with the old files, copious not es, e-mails and a healthy supply of caffein ated beverages, and we decided which changes needed to be made, who se ideas for fixes were worth following up on, and who m we were going to pummel senseless when the process was all over. I also had the unenviable task of decidingprecisely what material went into the book. The basic clans and Disciplines? they had to be in there. The Sabbat? Sort of a necessity, I thought. Minor clans and blood lines? Well, they weren't available anywhere else. Other Disciplines? If the clans were going to be in there, the appropriate rules had to be as well. back ground? At least some, for new players just picking up the book. The basics of the game? Indubitably. A little bit of common-sense warning? A necessity, in light of all the rumbles about PTAs and religiouswatchdog groups has sling MET games. A FAQ? Considering the number of changes we'd made, it sort of had to go in there. You see how books get big, fast? Suddenly a 50,000-wordcut-and-paste job had turned into a 110,000-word monstrosity. Some things got cut out of the draft -there was no choice if we wanted it to fit between two coversbut still, it remained a towering, imposing pile of verbiage. A month or so later, a manuscript emerged. With much fanfare and other goofiness, it went through the copy-editing process -multiple times -and eventually emerged into the light of Production and layout. Those of you with long memories might not e that Laws of the Night was the first of the MET books to not have acover adorned with photographs and Photoshop. Rather, the book's cover has a subdued gray marble back ground and little else -just logos (which are so me thing of a design necessity). That was deliberate. The idea (has hed out in many discussions with the talented Mr. Larry Snelly and Ms. Katie Mc Caskill, who laid out the book) was to create a book that acharacter could carry -or even open -during play, with out having it look like, well, a game book. Hopefully, we could put the rules in so me thing that the most foppish to read or or the most staid Tremere wouldn't feel awkward about whipping out in the midst of heavy roleplaying. Digression: I consider the illusion of the game world to be one of the most important aspects of game play. I'm a big fan of deep immersion; every time a test goes of f or dice hit the table, it's a for cible reminder that you are Just Playing A Game. I like my illusions, and I like them with as little duct tape holding them to get her as possible. That means if I have to check a rule during game play, I want to do so in a way that seems like part of the action. Ergo, the book that gets pulled out forthat check should look like an in-play prop, so me thing my character would have naturally. That wasn't the end of it, not by a long shot. The book was too long, which meant that even more material had to be cut or squeezed -Katie did heroic work shrinking headers, smooshing sidebars and annexing borders so that everything that was vital would fit. Suddenly, from what had been a jumble, there emerged a book. For all of its flaws -and I know the book has the m, than k you it do es what it was intended to: It makes looking rules up in game play easier; it addresses the concerns of the people who helped poke at it. Most of all, it's useful. And that, after all, is what I was after from the very beginning. -the deadgiuy

## ENOCHIAN MYSTICISM by Jess Heinig the Worldof Darknessisvast and intricatelybal anced.Torepresent that complexity through liveaction (in the corerulebooks like Lawsof the Night), certainelementshavetobeleftbehind for considerationsof spaceorthematicintegrity.how ever, fearnot.Pickingupwherethecorebooksleaveoff is ajobforthe Mind's Eye the atre Journal.In this article, we takea lookatthe True Black Hand and the Disciplines that are uniquely its own.(don't worry;the powers aren't as broken as they sound). Millenniaold, drawinginspirationfromapocalyptic rantings and slumbering monstrosities, the

Tal'mahe'Ra-—the True Black Hand-once awaited the End

Times prophesied in the Book of Nod. Far more successful than most Gehenna cults, the True Hand claimed exclusive do minion over rare powers and mysterious secrets. the se elders infiltrated and manipulated Camarilla and Sabbat alike, sometimes sirnultaneously. their crusaders hunted and killed vampires with a skill worthy of the Assamites. how ever, even the most fervent fanaticism is no equal to the destruction unleashed in the Fin al Nights. The deaths of powerful vampires and the chaos of war has split the True Hand from its for mer contacts and all ies, for cing its for mer members to hide or be destroyed. Crushed under the weight of centuries and the inevitability of change, the True Hand is no more, its vampires little better than the squabbling Cainites against who m they so recently fought and maneuvered. Once, the True Hand sought to serve the will of the Antediluvians. Its holdings in the Shadowlands -therealm of the dead -lay beyond the reach of its enemies, and its careful manipulations and unique abilities all owed it to control entire broods of vampires with ease. The hierarchy of the True Hand is now disrupted, and its resources are scattered and broken. Only by integrating the mselves into Kindred society can the True Hand's for mer members survive. (not e: The True Black Hand and its adherents are not necessarily suitable for all styles of play. Storytellers should choose whether or not they wish to acknowledge the existence of the Black Hand in their individual chronicles. Certainly, the blood lines and Disciplines presented here diverge considerably from those of 'mainstream' vampires, and can be unbalancing. Also not e that the Nagaraja as presented here differ slightly from their tabletop incarnation in Dirty Secrets of the Black Hand. This is an intentional result of updating them to conform to the standards of therevised Vampire.)

## N ~q A RAJ A

Of course mankind continues on af t e r death, my childe. Our existence should be enough to prove that. But what of the others who do not share in our particular cursed blessing of immortality? Why, they continue on as well, 1 assure you. That man there, By the corner, is going to die in the next few nights, as a matter of fact. I am quite sure that we will see him again shortly there after. How can I tell? Suffice it to say, I can see such things. And yes, I can teach you as well, though your tutelage will begin a bit differently than mine. We don't have quite so demanding a schedule ahead of us as I did when 1 was inducted into this world. But come. We will return to this subject in time. You and I mwt dine tonight, and I hawe prepared a most succulent repast. Do youremember the woman I pointed out to you a week ago? T h e woman who had been hawing those terrible headaches...? The for bidden experiments of the Tremere were not the only magical works to produce results. In the early days of the True Hand, a subsect of mages obsessed with the secrets of death and the after life bent their collective will toward understanding vampirism. At last, convinced that their research granted them the power to manipulate the vampiric curse to their own ends, they conducted a great ceremony to strike the life from their bodies and become undead for ever. The Nagaraja still exist, and they continue to study and develop the secrets of death and what lies beyond. their command of necromantic arts is rivaled only by that of the Giovanni, and the Flesh Eaters have some secrets that not even the upstart Necromancers have discovered. with out the True Hand, the Nagaraja is a directionless and dying blood line; whether it survives the coming reckoning or falls to the paranoid waltz of the Jyhad remains to be seen. Clan Disciplines: Auspex, do min ate, Necromancy

Advantage: Instead of practicing the for ms of Necromancy pioneered By the Giovanni, the Nagaraja use Vitreous Necromancy (sometimes called 'Nihilistics') -a special path concerned with the energies of death and decay. Should your game include the additional Necromancy powers from vampire, the Nagaraja use Ash Necromancy and are capable of learning Vitreous Necromancy after attaining expertise to an Intermediate level. Otherwise, use Vitreous Necromancy as their primary Necromancy path, giving them access to unusual abilities unknown to other clans and blood lines. Because of their sensitivity to the energies of the dead, Nagaraja can automatically sense the presence of any wraiths in their vicinity (about lofeet), although they can not necessarily see or identify particular wraiths (at least, not with out Ash Necromancyor the Merits: Ghostsight or Speaker with the Dead). Disadvantage: In add it i on to drinking blood, the Nagaraja must consume human flesh. A Nagaraja must devour two health levels' worth of flesh each day, preferably fresh. A normal human corpse is considered to have three servings of 'the other white meat.' Vampiric flesh will not do, as it rots and decays once it is devoured. ANagaraja who fails to 'get his pound of flesW'gains the Negative Trait: Sickly for eachnight of fasting; the se Traits disappear ifthe Nagarajalater consumes additional flesh (one serving for each Trait). Nagaraja have no special capacity for eating food other than raw flesh, unless they take the Merit: Eat Food. ## I N C L U D I N C ~ T H E NAC~ARAJAIN you R CHRONICLE

As a blood line of perhaps adozen members from avampiric society now nearly destroyed, the Nagaraja would seem to have limited potential for use as characters. with the extent of the True Hand's influence in vampiric society, though, such is hardly the case. Agents of the True Hand from almost all clans infiltrate various

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL levels of the Camarilla and Sabbat, and even in the wake of recent upheavals, they continue to advance the ir own schemes while hiding with in the other sects. for midable necromantic prowess combines with the wisdomofgreat age tomake the Nagaraja cunning and dangerous adversaries. Obviously, other necromancers are the most likely to know of the Nagaraja; the Giovanni family in particular considers the Nagaraja a nuisance, but still casts a jealous eye toward the bloodline's secrets. For the ir part, the Nagaraja take an interest in the larger movements of Kindred society. Any seemingly insignificant political or social change with in either Camarilla or Sabbat could conceal the maneuvers of the ancients; such chess matches draw the attention of the True Hand and its members. with out the safety of any secure have n or widespread all ies, the Nagaraja must travel where the ir studies and needs take the m -and so one or even two may appear just about anywhere, if only briefly. Due to the ir scarcity, Nagaraja shouldn't arrive in a chronicle in droves. Rather, they are harbingers of terrible portents, for eshadowing the schemes of ancient vampires playing in the Jyhad. Too much an unknown quantity to be actively persecuted, the Nagaraja are largely an enigma to the more common clans. Possible ideas for adding Nagaraja to your chronicle include: - Nagaraja follow up on hidden or lost necromantic secrets with an almost religious fanaticism. A character unearthing an unusual bit of occult lore may attract the attention of a Nagaraja. - The movements of the ancients always draw the attention of the Tal'mahe'Ra. A Nagaraja agent may use his necromantic abilities to investigate unusual conspiracies or hidden influence in a city. - Since veryfew Nagaraja exist-and as they are not exactly protected by the sheltering arms of the Camarilla or Sabbat -it makes sense for the m to seek out places to hide, or all ies on who m they can depend. A single Nosferatu contact or a Brujah bodyguard can go a long way toward making unlife safer and more productive, and the Nagaraja aren't above making such contacts surreptitiously. - With the ir small bloodline size, Embracing potential recruits seems like a valid strategy for Nagaraja. Of course, educating a brand-new vampire and teaching her to avoid not ice, unearth the secrets of unlife and defend against potential threats is a risky undertaking, so the Nagaraja seek out only the most talented and intelligent recruits. A mentor-student team might seek shelter with a small group of neonates or ancillae, so that the fledgling Flesh Eater can adjust to her new condition in relative security. ## VI T R E o u s NE c R o M A N CY

The for bidding workings of Vitreous Necromancy can be used to sense and manipulate the dark energies of entropy, decay and death. for merly called 'Nihilistics,' this type of Necromancy is practiced almost exclusively By the now-vanished Nagaraja blood line. Other necromancers would give much to unearth this Discipline's secrets, for it is a powerful adjunct to the ability to control therestless. Its true capabilities, how ever, lie buried with its makers in therealm of the True Black Hand. ## BASIC

## Eyes of the Dead

Tapping into the flow of death energy, you can see through the eyes of any wraiths who happen to be around you. By examining auras with the ghostly sight of the dead, you can determine relative states of health, decay and injury. System: You must expend a Mental Trait to use this power. Once activated, you are capable of using a wraith's Deathsight fortheremainder of the scene, or until you pull your perceptions back into your ownbcdy (your normalsight is coopted by this power). Y o u see from the wraith's perspective, all owing you to view the decaying architecture of the under world. By looking at a person or object, you can determine i f the subject is damaged or diseased. You can a l s o see the ebb and flow of baleful magic (curses and binding enchantments). ## Hour of Death

Like Eyes of the Dead, this power lets you see with the perceptions of a wraith. You can pick out auras using your own vision, and see the telltale marks of death on all things. System: Activating this power calls for the expenditure of a Mental Trait. Like Eyes of the Dead, you can determine injury and disease with this power, simply with your normal sight (instead of borrowing a wraith's vision). You may be able to tell if a subject is about to die -if a character is dying, you may ask a Narrator how long the subject has to live (as determined By the target's remaining Physical Traits). You can also distinguish between different for ms of entropy, so you can tell therelative power of various curses and harmful spells. ## I N T E R M E D I A T E

## Soul Judgment

Tapping into the Beast that resides even in ghosts, you can sense a wraith's dark passions, the emotions that give it strength but also feed its hatred of the living. You can determine whether a wraith is in the thrall of its Beast (called the 'Shadow'), all owing you to plan your dealings accordingly. Since many wraiths are unaware of what their Beasts do while in control, this power all ows you to bargain with them in ways that may not be immediately apparent. System: You must expend a will power Trait and make a Mental Challenge with the wraith in question in order to determine whether its higher self, or 'Psyche,' has been overridden by its Shadow. This power also all ows you to determine whether the wraith is routinely do min ated by its Shadow; such wraiths are called Spectres and are exceedingly dangerous. ## Breath of than atos

Drawing entropic energy out of your own dead body, you can breathe a fine, invisible mist of death over an are a. This energy settles like a see thing cloud that attracts the attention of malefic spirits. System: You must expend a Blood Trait and make a Simple Test (win or tie) to exhale the Breathof Thunutos. if successful, you can cause the ghostly cloud to settle over an are a around you; Spectres will come to this are a, very likely to harass anyone with in. Alternately, you may breathe the mist at an individual (requiring a Mental Challenge to direct the gases successfully). In this case, the victim suffers one health level of aggravateddamage and is afflicted with the Negative Social Traits: Repugnant x2 fortheremainder of the evening; the energies give the victim an eerie, pallid aura. Also, such a victim registers as tainted by Oblivion and Wyrm-energies. Multiple uses of this Discipline in the same evening are not cumulative on any one victim. ## ADVANCED Soul Feasting

This puissant power all ows you to literally drain the energy of ghosts and the dead, absorbing it for yourownpurposes. you can the nuse this energy tofuel your undeadpowers. ## MIND'SEYE the ATRE JOURNAL

System: You must expend a will power Trait to activate this power for the duration of a conflict. You can attack wraiths with your bite, just as if feeding normally. If you manage to bite successfully (with a Physical Challenge), your fangs penetrate into the under world and all ow you to devour the wraith's energy -each Corpus level (health level) stolen In this fashion gives you one Trait of Entropy. (If you 'drink the wraith dry' In this fashion, the unlucky spirit falls into a Destruction Harrowing.) Alternately, you may simply draw entropy from your surroundings, if you are in a cemetery, Haunt or other place of the dead; In this case, you gain one Entropy Trait for each Mental Trait that you expend, up to three Traits total from any given are a. the se Entropy Traits may the n be used to power Disciplines in the place of Blood Traits, although they can not be used for any other functions common to Blood Traits (such as healing, reviving someone from torpor or improving Physical Traits). Entropy Traits gained with this power last through out the evening, until spent. ## TRUE BRUJAH

Ifinditmostineriguing, really, that moreof the Rubbledon't know about us. Troile was so proud of h i s victory over our father, and the younger ones haw such a time controlling the melves that it would seem obvious that those of Troile's line would b e different. It seem that the self-proclaimed scholars should be ab l e to make the connection easily enough and hypothesi Te our existence, at least. But the young one I... questioned... had never heard of mybrothersandI. Hekeptinsisting(even when Iap~liedwhite-hotbra~ tohim) that he was a 'true Brujuh. ' He honestly did not see the difference between himselfand I. But he will learn soon enough, I suppose. He waits now in the hopes that the coming of day will let him escape It's of no consequence, ultimately. I have an eternity of night to convince him otherwise. the n I can get buck to my real studies. According to the legends of the Kindred, the Brujah clan hails from the lineage of Troile, an upstart who diablerized the or igin al Brujah Antediluvian. Though Troile stole the ancient's power, he failed to usurp the entirety of the blood line, and to this day several very old and very cunning descendants of the or igin al Antediluvian are rumored to exist. Following the tradition of scholarship handed do wn through their blood line, the survivors' logical minds and keen intellects focused on the acquisition of knowledge and the finer points of philosophy; their calm, rational natures led to a reputation as legendary thinkers and keepers of wisdom. In add it i on to this wisdom, the True Brujah honed a keen sense of perception, leading them to develop unparalleled political machin ations and an uncannv sense of history. or igin ally founding members of the True Black Hand, the True Bruj ah -if, indeed, any remain -are said to control the perceptions of time and even, among the eldest, the currents of the ages. A keen grasp of philosophy makes for a well-honed mind, but not necessarily an understanding or moral one. Indeed, the True Brujah as a who le left behind human morality centuries before. In their quest for knowledge and their search for perfection of the mind, they delved into much for bidden lore. Bent to the purity of developing Platonic ideals, they did not recognize the dangers of consorting with infernalists, and they welcomed rites and sacraments most foul. with the patience of timesight and a drive unfettered by emotions or morality, the True Brujah brought about their own do om at Carthage and other places. Even when for ming the True Black Hand, they refused to rectify their errors, and their demonic taint and ties continued to infect them -and still do in modern nights. Having fled the destruction of their sect, what True Brujah remain would presumably be solitary and independent figures, weighted by powerful blood and centuries of age. Beyond vengeance, petty politics or material concerns, the se introspective Cainites have only their shared thirst for knowledge left. If any survive, they are surely ensconced in the furthest comers of the world, studying esoteric works beyond the ken of mankind or younger vampires. Clan Disciplines: Potence, Presence, Temporis

Advantage: True Brujah are exceedingly controlled and unemotional. Devoid of passion, they find it easy to resist the ravages of frenzy, as they are not easily moved to displays of rage or terror. A True Brujah always gains one free test to attempt to avoid frenzy (generally at the standard Trait difficulty), even with out expending a will power Trait. True Brujah also gain a single retest against powers or Disciplines that would incite frenzy in lesser vampires. Disadvantage: Because of their detachment and coldness, True Brujah have difficulty holding to moral or philosophical concerns. To the m, such abstractions are intellectual exercises, not hing more. True Brujah are likely to gain Beast or Path Traits as a result of their in ability to hold to a system of beliefs. Any time that a True Brujah would be called upon to test for a new Beast or Path Trait, the player must make two tests and take the worst result. If astoryteller decides to assign anew Beast or Path Trait with out a test, the player should make one Simple Test; failure indicates that the character gains two Beast or Path Traits instead of just one. ## I N C L U D I N ~ T H E TRUE BRUJAH I N Y O U R CHRONICLE

Time and contemplation weigh heavily on the True Brujah. Determined to reclaim their stolen destiny from the brood of Troile, they weave convoluted and long-running plots to take revenge for their losses. Though slow to anger, their fury is as boundless as any vampire's When they are roused. The appearance of a True Brujah is not so me thing publicly bandied about. Indeed, most Kindred are completely unaware of the existence of the blood line proper. Generally, a True Brujahmasqueradesas a Ventrueor Lasombrawhenassociating with Camarilla or Sabbat groups, relying on age and experience to dissuade investigation into the truth. After all, with their history at Carthage and their supposed betrayal by Troile, they are quite experienced in deception and hidden warfare. for the most part, True Brujah are historical scholars, antiquated relics of a bygone age who mull over much philosophy but rarely act. The days of the blood line's prominence -if, indeed, they ever truly were the basis of the Brujah clan -are long gone, and they now concern the mselves with memories of the past. As a result, True Brujah of ten cloister the mselves from all but A few Kindred, seeking memories of their for mer glory or the sleep of ages. Only a rare few actively involve the mselves in the present, and even they are hard pressed to keep up with the constant changes of the frightening modem age. Whether or not the coming Fin al Nights will rouse the True Brujah to action -or lead to their ultimate destruction -remains to be seen. Possible ideas for adding True Brujah to a chronicle include: - with their time senses, True Brujah of ten have a good idea of important places in the unfolding of history. The ebb and tide of unusual events can draw a True Brujah to investigate. - with their scholastic knowledge and long history, True Brujahare always in search of new discoveries. When a piece of arcane lore i s unearthed in a particular chronicle, a

System: No challenge or expenditure is necessary to use this Discipline; once a practitioner becomes familiar with the ebb and flow of time, its rhythms are always apparent. ## Ramble On

By affecting a subject's sense of the passage of time, you can for ce the individual to continue performing a particular action. The victim is entranced, carrying on his action long after he intended to stop. An individual taking a walk, for instance, continues walking even after he has overshot his destin ation; a victim trying to run away becomes so intent upon fleeing that he keeps trying to run even after he has been captured. System: You must make a Social Challenge against the target to use this power. Once activated, the subject automatically attempts to repeat the same action performed in the current turn in the next turn. Thus, in the next turn, the victim repeats what he was do ing previously, as long as the action is repeatable. A character who picks up a book, for instance, can not be made to try to pick up the same book once he's already holding it; in the presence of several books, though, he could be made to pick up an additional book. ## I N T F R M E D I A T F Zombie's Curse

Warping a target's perception of time, you can make the victim take longer to do anything. The subject slows do wn, moving as if smothered in molasses, and he has difficulty reacting to things happening at 'normal speed.'

System: You must engage in a Social Challenge with your victim in order to affect her perception of time. If successful, the subject is slowed for the next 15 seconds (four turns). A slowed victim may still use weapons and powers, but her actions always come after everyone else's, and she may have difficulty in combat. The slowed target suffers from the Negative Traits: Clumsy x2 due to dulled reactions. ## Cowalker

Blinking outside of time, you can move briefly between ticks of the clock. A concerted for ce of will all ows you to step beyond the bounds of normal time, so that you are able to act while the world is frozen around you. System: Expend a will power Trait to step betweenseconds, and you are able to take one action (and only one, with out any enhancements from Ceknty or other powers) between turns. You can not affect anything else that is frozen in time -thus, you could battle another individual who i s also using this power, but you can not open a do or, punch someone or turn on a light. In effect, you are free to move for one turn -generally, to a distance of three steps. how ever, if you can get out of reach of your opponent or find a suitable hiding place, you may be able to use this power for a Fair Escape. You can also attack from surprise by using this power in combat, at least the first time you 'blink.'

## ADVANCED

## Frozen Object

You can literally warp the fabric of time around an object, causing it to exist in a pocket outside the flow of the seconds. Such an object retains any energy or properties that it had when frozen, but it can not be affected by interactions from: he normal time stream. As a result, you can throw a knife and the n leave it in midiir, or halt time for a grenade thrown at you long enough to escape. System: An object may be frozen for up to 15 seconds (four turns) of normal time. You must decide how long to freeze the object when halting it. Although you do not need to touch the item, you must be able to see it, and it can not be in the possession of another individual. therefore, you can freeze a knife, a bomb or a falling object, but unless you have some means of seeing a bullet (such as by stepping outside time with the Cowalker power), you can not affect it. Frozen objects retain their energy but can not interact with the physical world; thus, a thrown knife resumes flying once this power elapses, but it can not be plucked from the air while frozen. Activating this Discipline requires the expenditure of one Physical Trait. ## MASTER

Control Aging

You can alter the effects of time upon a particular subject. with a touch, you can rapidly speed up, slow do wn or even reverse the accumulation of time in your target. System: You must grasp your target physically in order to control time's effects upon it; this may require al'hysical Challenge in the case of unwilling subjects. The object can be no larger than roughly man-sized -generally, 500 pounds or so is the upper limit. You must the n expend one Physical Trait for each decade that you wish to add to or subtract from the victim's age. not e that vampires altered chronologically with this power do not undergo physical changes (they are immune to the ravages of time), but may suffer supernatural difficulties (such as in ability to gain sustenance from the blood of animals or even humans). Once this power is used on a given individual, it may not be used again on the same subject in the same game session. ## do main of Evernight

By dilating the perceived flow of time around yourself, you can make it appear that time has sped up incredibly. Everyone in the are a -including you -experiences a highly altered flow of time. This power can be used to great effect when defending a have n, by causing night to come with rapidity or by exposing vampiric foes to daylight. System: This power affects only a single room at a time. You must win a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty seven Traits) to cause one hour of time to pass in the space of a single turn (about five seconds of real time or so, when not in combat). You must have a Narrator present in order to use this power; all events in the given room are taken 'out of location' as the are a steps outside of the normal time stream. Those who step into the are a are immediately included in the perceptiondistorting effects. If a room is affected with this power, those inside can not return to the normal flow of the game until outside time 'catches up' with their perceived time frame. For example, if Laocrines the True Brujah activates this power in a side room at seven o'clock, he can make a Mental Challenge to cause everyone in the are a to experiencedilated time for an hour (althoughsubjectively the inhabitants of the room experience only a single turn). No one who enters the room or is in the are a of effect can leave the room until eight o'clock outside. Due to the potential disruptiveness of this power (possibly causing several players to wait for an hour or more before returning to play), Storytellers should exercise extreme caution in all owing its use in their games. e

White Wolf's of fictal Fan Club

## Ce Camaritla

The midnigbt dancecontinues: don't get leftbehind! participate in Mind's eye the atre osyou never have before. Join achronicle that spans the globe from romanticporis roglitzy tos Angeles. As a member. you will receive: - The quorterlynational newsletter, Bequiem
- ·A 2o% discount on products when you order directly from whitewolf
- An of fieiol membership cord and a member hand book ro join, please send $zo. oo to: The camarillo pO B0827974 salt Lakecitu, utah84127-0974 camstuffovampire. tamu. edu www. camorilla. or g
- Access to ploy in ashared worldof parkness Mind's eye the atre chronicle. Miondsmis bent liasnyeanfaeteaeerunaaegatfah

## CBe Camaritla

White Wolf x of feal Fan Club

## PUMONCA EOR WYLD W€ST FRONTIER FELINES: by Jess Heinig

The Nuwisha and the Cmax aren't the only newcomers to Mind's Eye st. Enter the Bastet. Lithe, the atre with the advent of Law gracefuland utterly ferocious, the yembody Gaiascuriosityand sensuality. And of the m, the Pumonca best embody the spirit of the American Savage West. The Pure Lands have b the se hardy loners hav the arrival of the Wyr warriors, the Pum Storm Umbra and ters and relentless line cousins of the millennia. Spread across the plains, swamps and mountains of the frontier, Native American tribes, and they are dangerous foes to the arrogant European Garou. Srubbombuthard-working, the Storm Walkersarefearsomeprotectors of the American heartlands. Bound to the earth in spirit and in fact, they wander across the entire continent, living out the brutal seasons through sheer endurance. Technology and magic alike hold no draw for the m; the Pumonca survive upon the merits of their ownphysical prowess and skills. It is not until the 1880s united face to protect their lands Despitetheirphysicalresilienceanddetermin ation, though, the Pumonca fall before thesettlers from across theocean. with outthepowerfulmagicsof the Europeanwolves, the ycannot combat the Gifts and rituals of the othershifters. to get her for amysticalrebirth. From this spiritual awakening, the Pumonca from the depredations of Wyrm-creatures and wolves alike. ## BASTFT BASICS

Bastet characters in Mind's Eye the atre games share many similarities with their wolfcousins-and they usethesameformatforcharactercreation —but the big cats do have some pointed differences. - ·Bastet have and use Rage, Gnosis and will power just as Garou do, except asnoted otherwisein the following text. - ·Each of the Bastet tribes has its own supernatural for ms. Unlike the Garou, the different tribes tend to take on different characteristics when shifting, sothe Crinosformofaparticular Bastetmaydifferin Traitsfrom the Crinosformofa Garou, or even from that of a Bastetfroma differenttribe. - Bastet can not step sideways naturally. Only through the use of a special Intermediate Gift (Walking Between Worlds) -or if they are with in their Den-Realm -can they enter the Umbra as do Garou. r
- Bastet never have the Backgrounds: Past Life or Totem. - A Bastet's initial Rage and will power Traits are iboth based upon her tribe; - a representation of their re and Demeanor Archetypes). - rious effects of that metal listed ·Bastet can regenerate just like Garou. they also take aggravated damage in Lawsof the Wyld West-defendingwithonlyhalf Physical Traits, and soon. - y. when ever a Bastet est. Failure (a loss, but ly, changing one form or until the scene ends). m to another -a lent of Glabro) and the nbackto Homid. - Each Bastet tribe has three Yava. the Yava are tribal secrets that may or may not be true. Regardless, the se secrets impact the tribe heavily；any outsider who learnsthese Yavacanfightthe Bastetmoreeffectively. Each Yava that anindividual learns is good for twobonus Traits onall challenges against Bastetof theappropriate tribe. Yava can not be extracted for cibly from a Bastetwithmagic; the character mustvoluntarily decide to give up the secrets. Bastet cubs who do not show the wisdomnecessary toguard the tribal secretsare simplynever taught any Yava. - their own inter-tribal lex messages require Ho ·Just as the Garou have their own tongue, the Bastet speak Kheuar(kew-
- derived from their whiskers, for the purposes of negating pe only one penalty Trait in darkness, where as most creatures incur a two-Trait penalty. this sensedoesnotfunctionin Homid for manddoesnotallowthe Bastet to detect supernaturallyhidden creatures (like Obfuscated vampires). - Bastet heal and regenerate just like Garou. - Bastet have some special Gifts and Backgroun
- Bastet have homid, metis and feline breeds, corres homid, metis and lupus breeds of the Garou. the se breeds same fashion as for Garou, except that all Bastet start with Gnosisdueto theirinnatespirituality. Also, the starting Giftsavailablebybreedare: - ·Since Bastet do not have Auspices, they don't start with an Auspice Gift. Instead, the ystartwithone Breed Giftandone Tribe Giftaswellasa General Gift. Homid: Cat Claws, Sweet Hunter's Smile

Metis: Create Element, Sense Pnml Nature

Feline: Mark as Mine, Kitten's Cry

## PYRIO

Pyrio must be different than his Nature or Demeanor (some Bastet are straightforward and honest about the face they show the world), but the se different levels of identity Bastet Pyrioaremainlyroleplayingtools, astheyreflectthe Bastet'struenature, beneatheventhe Natureand Demeanor Archetypes. This is not tosay that a Bastet's

| Rank | Title | |
| 1 | Tekhmet | |
| 2 | Aka | |
| 3 | Tilau | |
| 4 | Ilani | 20 |
| 5 | Bon Bhat | 25 |

## BASTET BACKGROUNDS eritage, Bastet have access to some Backgrounds that are arou. In addition to many of the Backgrounds described in a Bastet can choose from Den-Realm, Jamuk and Trinket. ## DEN-REALM sedisasters and attacks, and you can r instantly at a cost of one Gnosis (but A Den-Realmisan are a of territory marked and claimed bya Bastet.with in a Den-Realm, you can Step Sideways(subject to the normal limitations imposed upon Garou, but with outareflective surface), you can peek into or out of the only onceperscene).Alsa, you can alwaysfindyour Den-Realm, nomatterwhere you are; and by touch, you can rakepeople with you into the Umbra if you step sideways(if the subject is will ing). the number of Traits expendedfor the Background determines the sizeof the Den-Realm. One Trait:A small house. Two Traits:A large manor. Three Traits:A full block, about five squaremiles. Four Traits: Two square blocks; about 10 square miles. Five Traits: Five square blocks: about 20 square miles

Storytellers can choose to limit use of this back ground, since itcan givea Bastetlargeamountsofcontrolovermuchofagame are a. Also, charactersmaybe requiredtoperformaspecial Riteorquesttosecurea Den-Realm, insteadofsimply purchasing one at the outset of play. ## JAMAK with this back ground totem: It works forth Unlike Garou, who runnpacks and take totem spirits as patronsfor their Bastet and the totem may "part ways'and the plaver can the n trade the levels In this back ground to gain a new and different Jamak at a latet date (although this certainly requires a quest or story relating to the discovery and bonding of a new spiritualmentor). Generally, a Jamaksa small, Gaffling-level ncarnationof a largerspirit, and soeachamakhasitownpersonalnameinsteadofsimplybin "Bear"or"Unicorn."

Buying a Jamuk is just like pur must pay all of the associated poin

## TRINKET

Bastet tend to pick up curious characterhas discovered somethingwithmagicalpowers. This. could be amagical Talisman or a spiritual Fetish; what ever the case its full powers and potenciesare determined By the Storyteller. Since Bastet of tendabbleinmagicsunknown to the Garou, it'spossiblefortheobjectto havesomestartlingpowersunknownfor most Fetishes. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL etish back ground, but the outside therealm of spirits shoots fire, summons rats. Storytellercanchoosetogivetheobject sorcerous powersorotherabilitiesnormally

## S O R C ~ R Y A N D

Intenselymysticalreatures, Bastetfindthat theycansometimeslearnsorcery and wizardry practiced bymortals. It's unusual and taxing, but it do eshappen. dy said that learning the hidden mysteries was easy.... the Pumonca are particularly unlikely to ever develop sorcery—it's simply an are aof power for which the yhavenoinclin ation. should a Bastet unearth the means and motivestodevelopsorcerouspowers, though, the playermaypurchasesorcery pathsfrom Lawsof the Hunt. of course, suchpurchases are subjectto theusualrules for shifters and outsiders learning sorcery: The player must expend33% more Experience Traitsonall purchases(four Traitsfor Basiclevels, eightfor Intermedi-

## BASTET BREED GIFTS

## HOMID GIFTS

Basic
- for ms. do ing so costs of the scene, or until normally, inflicting a l o o k quite unusual in Negative Physical Trait: Sokto for ms, and thus cause you to suffer the ·Cat Claws: you are able to unsheatheyourclaws even in Homidor Sokto
- ·Eavesdropper's Ear: your sensitive ears are privy to whispers and distant conversations with theexpenditureofa Mental Trait, you are ableto listeninn distantor quietconversations (cupyourhand next to yourear toindicateuse of this Gift). this Gift lastsfor the durationof the scene, and may causeyouproblemsif you suddenly findyourself exposedto loudnoises. - Jam Gun: This functions j of the Wyld West. - Sweet Hunter's Smile: Yo your cat-like charms. By expendin additional Social Traits: Magneticx2or Intimidatingx2(yourchoice). the se Traits can beused up just like any other Social Trait. ## Intermediate
- nderstandable form or into unintelligiblegibberish. you mustexpenda Social Trait to activatethis Gift, which the nworks on any language(evenwritten ones). Everyonewithin50feet (generally, with in the sameroon)is affected; you can choose to cause everyoneto becomprehensibleor tomakeall cormunicationworthlessfor oneturm. - Craftof the Maker: Seethe Giff: Reshape Object, n Lawsof the Wildpage93. - f your for ms all ows you to alter your mid form to look like any sort of human. you must expend a Social Trait inorder to use this Gift; you the n assume any human appearance desired. You should wear a special card toindicate this change, and beings with supernatural senses may attempt to detect your change (though they can not see your true form) by makinga Menta1 Challenge against you. ## Advanced
- ows you to destroy food, drink and letely toxic and spoiled. arable land. You render any co arability of a square mi food is rendered rotten You must expend a permanent Rage Trait to invoke this Gift; you the n completelydestroy the valueofaquantityofwater up to thesizeofasmall lake, the before returning to a clean and usable state (through the bounty of Gaia's renewal). not e that Bastetusingthis Giftcannotreverseit, and the ysuffer the depredationsof itseffects; Bastet can bepoisonedby spoiled suppliesjust like anyone else. ## METIS C~IETS Basic
- Blinding Moonbea no exception. You can caus must win or tie a Simple Test of moonlight all owing you to s eyes generate beams tsforone turn. With successful challen a Physical Challenge, you can blind anopponent, causing him to sufferpenalties
- Create Element: See Laws of the Wild, page94. - ait. You gain total perception of everything with in 10 you make a Mental Challenge to not ice hidden or ·Whisker Sight: By attuning your senses to the gentlevibrations detected by yourwhiskersyoucanfeel out yoursurroundings even when unabletosee. You invisible objects, althoughinsubstantial creatures or things(likewraiths）remain beyondyour perceptions. This senseremoves all penalties for fighting in darkness, and lastsforascene, - ·Sense Primal Nature: Like Gifts that all ow the Changing Breeds to sense the presenceof the Wyrm, Bastet Giftsenablethemtodetectthetouchof Rahjah, Nala or Cahlash(Weaver, Wyld or Wyrm, respectively）. See Sense Wyrm, in Laws of the Wild onpage94, but a Bastetcan sensewhether a particular object, place or creature has an affinity for any one of the threemembers of the Triat. If a testiscalledfor, the difficultyisone Traithigherthanusual dueto this Giftsless discerningnature. ## Intermediate
- smites matter and wounds foes. With growl, you can make a test of your permanent Rage againsta difficulty of six Traits(for in animate objects)or eight Traits (for creatures). If you succeed, your target is destroyed(if anobject of10 poundsweight or less) or suffers one Health level of aggravated damage(if a creature). This Gift has noeffect on spirits or ghosts of any kind. - of the moon at night (only), you can opena Moon Bridgebriefly. the gatewaytakestheformofaswirlof silveryfog, and any travelerhoping touseit must stepinbeforeit disperses. You must expend one

## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL

Gnosis Trait to create the gateway, and make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty dependent upon your familiarity with the destin ation -five Traits for your own home, 20 or more for an unknown place or otherwsrldly Realm. You may travelupto10Omilesforeach Gnosis Traitexpendedin theformationof the gate. Failure to form the gate properly causes it to not function at all. - Redeem the Wa you lend it some of y are as that have beendefiled. By sniffing about and attuningyourself to the land, and makea Simple Test. ffyouwinortieyoumanagetocauseonesquarehalf-mile of despoiled landtobeginhealing. Barrenlandsbecome fertileandplague-ridden plants grow again. This removes any sort of taint or poisons, curing the land permanently unless it is despoiled again at a later time. - strike across the Gauntlet!with the Spirit-Touch Gift, you maytouchorstrikebeingson the other sideof the Gauntlet-—soyou can remain in the physical world while attackinga victimin the Umbra, for example. to do so, you mustfirstwinortiea Simple Test and the nmakeyour normal challenge. this power all owsyouto attackspirits or Umbral enemies, or to strikefrom the Umbra atyourfoes in thematerial word. ## Advanced
- Moon Sense: You can extend extrasensory powers of Clairvoyance tant places as with the under the light of the arby and familiar locale, 1 minute of viewing costs can react if you are discovered effects end instantly. moon can be seen asyou gaze into a pool of still water. you must expenda Gnosis Trait to activate this power, and the nmake a Static Mental Challenge with a another Gnosis Trait. Torepresent this Gift, you need the assistanceofa Narrator; generally, the Narrator should remain atyour physical location(so that you can be discovered) while you go and spy on theremote place. Of course, using this Gift or attackedby someoneatyour"actualphysical location. Individualswith auspex Mental Challenge; if successful, the ybecome awareofyourviewingand the Gift's
- you whip up a terrible storm. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and three Social Traits. with in A few seconds (a turn at most), a terrifyingly potent storm rises, whipping about the are a and causing all manner of difficulty. Storytellers may 'ons?-q a result of the storm -ranged combat e n k d powers are largely overwhelmed. This lenge (about five minutes or less). ·Wrath of Nala: Callingupon the how ling windsof the fourcornersof Gaia, ## FELINEGIETS

## Basic
- use your opponents. You must engage in y. If you succeed, your you the n take the opportunity to counterstrike), or your target feels disposed to assist you (with healing Gifts, the assistance of Influence, or just some kind words). This Gift do es not endear you to those who take joy in harming the weak Wyrm-creatures and other tainted souls simply redouble their ferocity. - usk all ows you to mark your ognizes the mark as the sign Mark as Mine: Treating an o territory and objects. Any shapeshift order to use this Gift on any the same Gift a second time to see and remove the Gift w This Gift do es work on creature ove the mark by using of awerecat, whileothersupernaturalcreaturesareawarethatsomesortof for bidding sign or warding(Keep Out!) has been placed. You must expend a Gnosis Trait in
- Perfect Cover: Maki This Gift can be used only Ily concealed -in shadows, object, you can conceal it from discovery. you must expend a Gnosis Trait and make a Simple Test(win or tie). you succeed, the object or place is hidden completely from mortal perceptions, and even paranormal senseshave trouble amongrubbish, halfburiedin apileofleaves and bushes. you mayuse this if tohideyourself. ## Intermediate
- ·Ghosts at Play: Spraying musk around an are a, you can expose spirits and ghosts. you must make a Static Social Challenge(difficulty of the local Gauntlet). If you succeed, all spiritsandghostsin thearea(with in10feet)becomevisiblefora turn. - ·Hand of Will: the powers of the will fulmind extend beyond the barriers of the physicalworld. with your penetratinggaze, you can telekmeticallymove objects that you can see. Expend a Gnosis Trait and a will power Trait; you can the n move things at range. Each permanent will power Trait that you possess grants the equivalent of three Physical Traitsworth of lifting power atrange, althoughyoucannotactuallyhit, crushormanipulatethings. this telekineticpush can be exerted for one turn; each additional turn of telekinesis requires the expenditure of a will power Trait. - Underbelly: with yourkeenperceptions, you can spot the weakpointson a given foe. You must make a Mental Challenge against your subject (difficulty determinedBy the Storytellerforobjects). Ifyousucceed, you maymakea Simple Test as afollow-uptyourext successful strikeonawinyouscoreanadditonal Level of damage. Usingthis Gift againstmystic protectionrequires the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait, and the Gift do esn't workon spirits of any kind. - Whisker Sight: As per the Basic Metis Gift of the same name. Advanced
- Judgment of Pestilence: Calling upon the boons of Mother Cat and the natural winds, you can pull the ravages of disease to or away from a particular location. You must expend a Gnosis Trait and make a Simple Test to absorb a disease from a particular location. If you succeed (win or tie on the test), you can the n carry the disease, unharmed, to another location, there to release it. If you fail, or if you carry the disease for more than a single night or day (at the next sunrise or sunset), you are overwhelmed By the toxins and die immediately. ## ~ E N E R A L ~ I E T S

(not e: the se Gifts are all Basic Level. A player may choose one of the se Gifts at character creation.)
- Banish Sickness: By spending a Trait of the Medicine Ability and winning a Simple Test, a Bastet can purge a subject's body of illness, disease or venom. Particularly virulent diseases require an expenditure of from one to three Gnosis Traits depending on severity. Some illnesses (such as can cer or leprosy) may even be incurable. - Catfeet: As the Basic Lupus Gift in Laws of the Wild, page 97. - Command Attention: By entering a room and making a number of Simple Testswitha Narratorequal to the number of Social trait she has, a Bastetmaydraw on his innate sensuality and feline presence to get the attention of everyone inside. Activating the Gift requires at least one victory (not a tie) on the Simple Tests, and if successful, the Bastet draws the immediate attentionofeveryone in the room as he enters. He also gains a Bonus Social Trait (dependent on what effect the Bastet was hoping for when he entered the room) for every Simple Test he wins, for use in the next Social Challenge. This Bonus applies only once upon entering the room, and each Bonus Trait won must be the same. - do wsing: By pawing and sniffing around (i. e., makinga Mental Challenge), a Bastet can locate nearby water sources and determine whether or not said water is safe to drink. The difficulty of this challenge is based on how far away the source is (it must be with in 100 feet) and how much water is present. - Lick Wounds: As the Basic the urge Gift: Mother's Touch. how ever, a Bastet can use this Gift to heal herself, and she can use the Gift as many times as she wants (at the cost of one Gnosis Trait per 'lick'). - Open Seal: As the Basic Ragabash Gift. - ·Pathfinder's Pride: By succeeding in a Mental Challenge against a difficultybasedon thecomplexityof thesurroundingterrain, a Bastetcanmprove his better-than-average sense of direction. Using this Gift, a Bastet can navigate amaze, trampoutofatropicalrainforestorworkhiswayoutofabustlingcity. eep in mind, how ever, that this iftonly shows the Bastetawayout; gertingthereis up the were cat. - ic Ahroun Gift. - ·Sense the Truth: As the Basic Philodox Gift: Truth of Gaia. - Sense Unmaker s Hand: As the Basic Metis Gife. Sense Wyem. - Silent Stalking: Callimg on their innate stealth and predatory nature (and winningahysical Challenge against five Traits), the Bastetcan stifle all sounds of erassngatwhatsufahsseraveloesotcrunchna beneathher. this gift does not, owever, conceal the astetin anywayotherthan to stifle the sounds shemakes. - ·Spirit's Sight: By spending one Gnosis Trait and winninga Simple Test, a Bastetcanpeeracross the Gauntlet Shecannotbreachthebarrierphysicallybut using this Gift is an excellent way to gather information. This Gift lasts for one scene or until the Bastet is knocked unconscious. ·Treeclimber: By extending and sharpening her claws, a Bastetcanclimbnearlyanyvertical surface. Activating the Gift requires a victory in a Physical Challenge against a dificulty dependenton the nature of the surface beingclmbed, and the charactermoves at approximately10feet per turn. ## CREATINGA PUMONCA

Asoneof theninetribesof Bastet, the Pumonca followall of the rules for Bastet characters shown above. they have their own tribalpeculiarities as follows: - ·APumonca startswith two Rage Traitsandtwo will power Traits. - Beginning Gifts may be Mockingbird's Mirror or Wanderer's Boon. - ·The Pumonca gain different Traitsin their dif ferent for ms than Garou do, cord muscles and predictably catlike features. In Sokto form (equivalent to Glabro), the Pumoncagains the Traits: Ferocious, Quick and Tough, but suffers the Negative Social Trait: Bestial. In Crinos A Pumonca's Homid for mis similartoa Garou's, thoughmost Pumonca have lean bodies, whipform, the Pumonca gains the Traits: Brawny, Ferocious x2, Nimble, Quick x2, Robust, Relentless and Tough x2, but suffers the Negative Social Traits: Bestial x2 and Tactless. In Chatro (great cat) form, the Pumonca gains Ferocious x2, Quick x2 and Relentless x2, but takes the Negative Traits: Bestial x2 and Shortsighted. In Feline (cougar) form, the Pumonca gains Quick x2 and Tireless x2, but suffers from Bestial. ## PUMONCA YAVA
- A Pumonca is one with her land; if she leaves it for more than a full lunar cycle, she dies. - The essence of poisoned land (toxic waste, radiation, sewage) is deadly to a puma. Immerse him in its toxins, and he will perish quickly. - All beasts fear the puma. No horse will bear him, no do g will follow him. The great cats are his kin and they be friend him, but no other animal can approach with out terror. ## PUMONCA TRIBAL GIFTS Basic
- Mockingbird's Mirror: The simple trick of mimicry all ows the Pumonca to throw his voice anywhere, and to even imitate various sounds: people, machines, animals. This Gift all ows you tomimic soundsfor the duration of the scene; tofool someone, you mustsucceedin a Social Challenge. Ifyouattempttomimicasound outside of your normal vocal range. you must also spend one Gnosis Trait. - loudy day; 15 Traits for a small pocket of clouds ·Raincalling: Calling upon beneficentwinds and storms, you can draw out rain for crops or cool of f on a hot day. Expend one Gnosis Trait and engage in a for msanda showercomesdown for about10 minutes(oneconflict). this do esnot causeanyinjury, but can putoutsomefiresandcool of fcharacters. - or clay, and the effects are Stonework: Asper the Garou Gift: Reshape Object, in Laws of the Wild, permanent. - entire session. ·Wanderer's Boon: This Gift is a necessityfor the long-traveling Pumonca. The hardened traveler ignores seasons, climate，hunger and thirst. with the

## Intermediate
- nts, oozes and vines, by crooning to the pend a Rage Trait and a Gnosis Trait ugged x2, Tireless xi! and Tough x2, a normal no penalties from wounds), and one level of ·Bayou Shambler: The swamps of the Southernwetlands are home tomany and mysterious legends, and a properswampcatknows them all. You can call out （probablyinsuccessiveturns, since the ymaynotbespentin thesame tun), and makea Simple Test. Ifyou win or tie, you summon a foul-smellingmorass of eachof Brawland Stealth Abilities. the swampcreatureremainsforuptofiveturns. - ith the expenditure of a Gnosis Trait and a culty of the Gauntlet), you can summon up an Element-Folk successful Social Cha elemental spirit for a Elemental Gift, page The elemental remains for one scene, one hour or one task(which ever comesfirst). - the earth to tremble and crack. You must expend a Rage Trait and make a Social Challenge with a difficulty equal to twice the are a's Gauntlet. If you succeed, a natural disaster befalls everyone with in 100 feet -swamps beget quicksand, mountains suffer rock slides, snowcaps suffer avalanches, deserts and plains crack open and swallow of fenders. Everyone in the are a takes one health level of damage automatically (so this Gift probably injures just about everyone in play). ·the Hungry Earth: Rousing theire of Mother Gaia, the Pumonca causes
- Thunderbolt: From a pact with Thunderbird, you can call a stroke of the storm out of the sky! Any cloud, how ever small, can serve as asource forthis power. Spend a Rage Trait and make a Physical Challenge to hit the target; success causes the victim to be struck by lightning, scoring one level of aggravated damage for every two Traits of permanent Gnosis that you possess (round do wn). ## Advanced
- Earthspeaking: Whispering to the rocks in their own tongue, you can discern what has passed on the earth before. The spirits respond to a single paean. You must expend a Mental Trait to see into the past; you gain a vision or impression of events that happened there before, much like the vampiric power of Spirit's Touch or mortal Psychometry. how ever, your vision is quite vivid and includes many components of sight and sound, not just emotional sensation. Ask a Narrator for details; cats who use this Gift too of ten may find the mselves subject to unwanted emotional problems orderangements from therecurring intensity of past events. - Thunderbird's Cry: As per the Metis Bastet Gift: Wrath of Nab. ## More Than Human

## More Than a Match for the Denizens of the Night

The secrets of the elusive Gypsies revealed. The complete rules for hedge magic, with Master-class sorcery. ts and mortal or ganizations. [ay l! sies, Laws of the NI Hunter's Tools and Mind's Eye the atre All rights reserved. 心

## "MASTER-LEVEL" THAUMATURGY RITUALS by Charles Bailey

Aquestionarosein the Frequently Asked Questions sectionofthisissue of the Journalabout Master-Level Thaumaturgyrituals."what sortsof secret sorceries are available,"manyhave wondered,"to those vampireswhohavededicated their unlivestoattainingundisputedmasteryouer the secretsof Thaumaturgy？Far from being inclusive, the fol lowinglistshouldgiveyouafairideaofwheretostart. The rituals of 'Master-Level' Thaumaturgy present some of the most arcane and confidential secrets of the Tremere, as opposed to a next step higher along any particular Thaumaturgy path. the se are taught to only the most trusted of the clan, and those who possess the se secrets are watched to ensure that said secrets do not find their w a y to outsiders. For a player to purchase the se rituals, the character must be of at least seventh generation and of exceptional standing with House and Clan Tremere. The cost is the same as for any Master-Level Discipline, how ever this level of Thaumaturgy do es not impart any additional powers; it simply all ows the character to learn the se closely guarded rituals. We recommend that Storytellers require characters to pursue research into the se rituals in-game (through the use of Influences and Abilities) to represent the rarity of this class of blood magic. Each ritual requires a rare component that should be gained through roleplaying; it is do ubtful that your local Chantrywould have, say, a Lupine skin lying around. ## RAISBTHE DEAD

Johnny Dash h a d just sunk his fangs into t h e prostitute's neck when a hand came do wn on his should er from behind. 'Always when I'mfeeding,' he thought. He tookaquickgulp the n pulled his head back, still keeping a grip on t h e who re's hair. 'This better be good.'

'Lord Asteron requests your presence, ' the figure behind him stated. 'Come with me. '

Johnny was about to slam-dunk the weirdo into anearby dumpster, but the name it i n v o k e d gave him pause. Asteron was one of t h e old Warlocks his sire was always muttering about. T h e figure steppd for ward, and Johnny saw a symbol carved or tattooed on its for ehead -that and the fact rhat most of the 'man's' h r was either white or gone, and that its eyes h a d sunk deeply beneath its do how brow. 'Hurry. After this task, I am to be released from this bondage.'

Johnny nodded and let the who re fall to her knees on the all ey floor. He did n't like the Tremere, but he under stood one thing... freedom. If his going with this walking corpse meant its release, he was all fbr it. This ritual all ows the thaumaturge to resurrect a dead body. The corpse is not truly the same person brought back from the dead; the body merely acts as the host for a spirit that the thaumaturge coerces into inhabiting the corpse. This existence is torturous for the spirit in question, and most spirits seek release from the bondage. Unfortunately, there is no way for the spirit to become free unless the thaumaturge lifts the enchantment, or the body decomposes. The

Warlock most likely uses this fact as a bargaining tool to get the spirit to do his bidding. how ever, the spirit retains its free will and it can act as it wishes. ## Requirements

The thaumaturge must have a cadaver with flesh still on the bones -the fresher the corpse, the longer the ritual holds the spirit. If the caster wishes the corpse to interact with the outside world, it is recommended that the body be less than a week old. He must brand a symbol that translates as 'debtor' on the corpse's for ehead, and must pour the wax from a black can dle over the heart and throat of the subject. The wax is the symbol that initially binds the spirit into the corpse. The room in which this ritual is performed must be completely devoid of light with the exception of the black can dle used. The entirety of the ritual must also be conducted in a salt circle with a diameter equal to the length of the body, from head to toe. ## System

The casting character should possess either Spirit Eyes (Basic Spirit Thaumaturgy) or Spirit Slave (Intermediate Spirit Thaumaturgy) before purchasing this ritual, as either all ows the character to interact with the spirits necessary. The character must defeat the spirit in a Static Mental Challenge versus 14 Traits to successfully coerce the spirit to enter the corpse. Once the spirit is bound into the cadaver, the thaumaturge has no firm control over the actions of the corpse, other than what is gained through roleplaying. The corpse's initial Physical/Mental/Social Traits should be determined By the Storyteller after the ritual is completed. The corpse possesses the same number of health levels as a regular character. the se levels can be lost to damage other than decomposition, and can not be healed back. how ever, the corpse is not subject to wound penalties. At the beginning of each game session, the thaumaturge player must engage in a Static Physical Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player loses, the corpse loses a health level due to decomposition. Once the corpse loses all of its health levels, the spirit is released and the ritual effect is ended. The corpse of a vampire who has suffered Fin al Death can not be used In this ritual. ## RITUALOP HOLDING

It wasn't easy, but Yusef had finally located his target. Carvel had been missing almost half the night, but Yusef h a d not yet given up. And now he had found him, not two blocks from the target's despicable 'Chantry. ' Yusef had waited longfor the chance to spill a Tremere's blood, and now would be his chance. Stealingfrom his hidingplace in the shadows of a two-story parkingdeck, Yusef crept up on Carvel unawares. In a burst of speed that scattered litter and dust in its wake, Yusef swept Carvel into a darkened all ey across the street from where he stood. The Tremere fought bneflr, but Yusef tackled him to the ground, blanketed the are a i n a heavy cloak of silence and pinned the vampire do wn with a knee on each of Carvel's slim elbows. Mouthing the words, 'Welcome the sun,' he pulled two woodenstakesfrom beneath his plain wool jacket. As per his orders, h e would leave the Tremere paralyzed until the sun rose over head. Yet, the Tremere seemed more surgnsed than afraid or wurried. with out even a shrug, Yusef plunged the first of his two stakes into the Tremere's chest. Unsurprisingly, the shaft exploded into hamless chips when it touched Carvel's skin. Yusef had been warned that many Tremere knew a ritual that protected them from minglestake, and he had comeprepared. Smiling, he brought the secondstakedownwhere the first had disintegrated. Let the Tremere choke on his proud faith in his rituals. Ama~ngly, the second shaft went the way of the first. Yusef sfingers closed on air, and hefalteredinshock. the hesitationwasall Carwelneeded. in aninstant, Yuseffound himselfpinned. Carvel put a hand over Yusefs heart and mouthed the words, 'Welcome the Devil. ' A moment later, Carvel's eyes danced as his hand erupted in flames. This ritual enhances the effects of other rituals. The effects of this enhancement differ according to the type of ritual with which it is used. ## Requirements

Performing this ritual adds six hours to the casting time of its partner ritual. The material component of the Ritual of Holding is a solid Tgold sphere. After completion of the initial ritual, the thaumaturge immerses the sphere in two points of his blood and spends six hours chanting over the sphere. After that time, the sphere absorbs the blood and the second ritual is considered complete. Onlv one ritual may be extended by a given casting of the Ritual of Holding System

To represent the concentration required forthis ritual, the character must engage in a Static Mental Challenge against 14 Traits. If she loses, the Ritual of Holding fails and there is no change to the or igin al ritual. The benefit of the Ritual of Holding is specific to the ritual with which it is used. The player may suggest the effect that she wishes to achieve, but the Storyteller is the fin al authority as to what actually happens. Some suggested effects include: Blood Walk: Extends the reach of the ritual to the progeny of the target, or to those who se blood the target has tasted. Engaging the Vessel of Transference: Exchanges only one Blood Trait for every two taken. Shaft of Belated Quiescence: Makes it impossible for Cleansing of the Flesh to remove the shaft. Once the effect of the ritual is decided, the Storyteller should fill out a card detailing theresults, and give it to the player. The player and Storyteller should discuss the effect that Holding has, and they should conduct any tests involved in advance of the ritual. do ing so all ows the character to perform the ritual during do wntime rather than miss an entire game session. ## UTTER DBSTRUCTIONOE BONDS

Here 1 am, locked in t h e back seat of a car, in the middle of the junkyard outside of town, with less than 20 minutes before dawn. I've tried all the do or s, but they seem to be welded shut from the outside. On top of that, I'm too weak to break through any of the bullet-proof windows. 1 guess the prince was serious, after all. there's garbage ewerywhere. If 1 could just get out of this metal pnson, 1 could burrow under it a n d sleep inrelatiwe safety. As it stands, I'we got only afew minutes before Apollo's chariot breaks the hwizon and fries me alive. But I'mcalm.... I ' w e beenin tighter spots. I clear m y mindandstart chanting. T h e incantation i s long and complex, which i s a pain since I'm getting drowsy and I'm almost swenting blood. But t h e hardest pmtcomes last.... I don't have a knife. For dus t o work, I h a v e to cut out m y own tongue, I e D and that's no small trick even with a knife. So instead, I blank m y mind, grab my tongw the tip and biteitoutwithmy teeth. lnearly black out, but lstillhave the pres~eofmindtosmearwhat's kftinmy hundagainrtthewindow. with awhoosh! and apop!, the windowexplodesoutwardand I pile out through t h e gaping, ragged hole. Half-blind with pain and m o r, I claw m y way to t h e nearest festering pile of refuse and w o r m m y w a y into it, t h e rays of dawn pushing me for ward. This ritual is incredibly powerful, yet few realize the full extent of its potential. The ritual, once completed, opens any designated object and prevents the object from ever being closed again. ## Requirements

The caster utters a 10-minute incantation, at the end of which she removes her tongue, crushes it and smears it on the object to be opened. ## System

Removing the tongue inflicts three aggravated health levels of damage, and renders the character unable to speak until his tongue can be grown back. Additionally, one will power Trait must be spent for the character to steel himself for the gruesome task of removing his tongue. The ritual can be used to open manacles, chests, safes, boxes, windows, do or s and eyes. If used to destroy a ward, no other can ever be placed in the same are a again. This ritual can also be used to open dimensional portals that are tied to objects, although Storytellers should be very careful when all owing this application of the ritual; the portal can not be closed once this ritual is used to open it. (not e: Utter Destruction of Bonds can not be used to break blood bonds or mental commands is sued with the do min ate Discipline.)

## RECLAIMED TREMERE ANTITRIBU RITUALS

After the destruction of the Tremere antitribu, the se rituals were discovered and brought back to Vienna for study. the se are the first of the antitribu rituals to be released for use with in the Tremere clan as a who le. Any character who wishes to learn any of the antitriburituals should be prepared for several months of research and roleplaying before being able to learn even one of the m. ## CHILL O E T H E W I N D S A B E R

Valentine had tracked the Tremere d over Russia, and now, just over the burder, she found him at last. The Tremere Larian had killed Valentine's uncle -bj dl reports, he had uctuully skinned the ancient Silver Fang-and Valentine declared that she would quench her Rage with Larian's blood. She plodded through the ankk-high snow toward the cabin where Larian was reported to b e holed up. She fantasizedabout his death screams and wondered what she would say if he begged for mercy. T h e sun h a d long since gone do wn, but Valentine wmn' t worried. If she found the cabin empty, she would simply wait ins&amp; until sunrise. when she was with inbowshotof thecabin, herearsdetectedsomethingduringalu Uin the wind. ltsoundedlikeasmpfrmins&amp; the cabin, though Vakntinecouldn'tbesure. She pused a m n t, her tail beating a constant rhythm against her legs, and the n moved ahead again. She h a d &amp; n only A few steps when she saw the snow p a r t in front of her like the trail of an outboard mom. The disturbance bored toward her from a cabin window and slammed into her midsection like a locomtive. She hit t h e ground hard and realized that she couldn't feel her hind legs -which lay where she once stood. She could not even raise a how l of agony or defeat as the night sky slowly grew ominously darker. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Chill of the Windsaber is perhaps the most controlled of the antitribu ritual,, and for good reason. A Tremere that possesses this ritual has the ability to destroy an opponent from a distance with out leaving a trace of the attacker

This ritual is very tightly regulated By the Tremere, to the extent that most of the clan still do not know that itexists. for a Tremere to be taught this ritual, hemust spend at least three months in Vienna where his loyalty to house and clan is tested. If he is deemed worthy, the ritual is taught to him. The penalty for teaching this ritual to anyone who has not undergone this trial is Fin al Death for both teacher and student. ## Requirement

Before the ritual can begin, the vampire must possess so me thing that belongs to the intended victim, such as a piece of clothing, a lock of hair or a Blood Trait. Once this item has been obtained, the vampire must spend one hour using the item to create a do ll that represents the intended victim. The second item required is a small piece of glass. This glass is placed on the do ll, and the cabter must spend another hour chanting over the do ll to complete the ritual. The vampire must be totally alone and undisturbed while into ning this ritual. If his concentration is broken, he must begin again. To activate the ritual, the vampiremust have bothdoll and glass in his possession (bothofwhichmustbe in thesamecondition the ywereinwhen the ritualwas enacted in order to preserve their magical properties), and he must be with in 50 feet of the intended victim. The vampire points at the victim and snaps the glass. theresulting telekinetic for ce inflicts damage -up to and including severing the target's head. ## System

The player must present the Storyteller with an item card that represents a personal item of the victim's before the ritual can begin. Due to the nature of this ritual, it should not be performed during do wntime. After the ritual is completed, the player must make a Static Mental Challenge against 12 Traits to see if his concentration is broken. If the player wins, the ritual i s successful; if not, the ritual fails and the character must start all over with a new item from the victim. To activate the ritual, the player must defeat the victim in a Mental Challenge. If the player wins the challenge, he decides how many will power to spend to fuel the effect. For each will power spent, the victim suffers one health level of damage. If the caster spends four will power, the full effect of the ritual is imposed and the victim's head is severed from her body. ## THE GIET

'The infiltraaon was successful?' the we a thered old woman asked, peenng int( recruit's soul (or so it felt). 'Yes, Excellency,' the young Assamite nodded. 'And I returned with the boa the one you asked for. '

'Most amanng, Ramhi,' the old woman sad, as if she had sad t h e same worc countless other recruits ame and again. 'You are to be rewarded most handsomely. I rt that 1 can not of fer you your target's blood-'

Ramsh murmured. 'By your grace, Excellency,'

'-but 1 can make your night-hunting easier.' Turning to a do or recessed ir adobe wall behind her, the old woman called out, 'Malakai~'

Moments later, a dark-skinned man dressed in scholarly robes that had gone out of fashion centunes ago appeared through the do or. 'Yes, Excellency,' he sad quietly. 'My studies proceed slowly now that Brother Raintree has disappeared.'

'You will take Ramshi to your chamber and bestow upon h z m the benefit of your supernatural senses,' the old woman said, ignonng Malakai's quiet protest. Ramshz tned not to break out in a proud smile. Malakui's should ers slumped m a gesture that would have been a sigh if Malakai still breathed. 'By your command, Excellency '

This ritual all ows the thaumaturge to transfer his Disciplines to another, through a laying on of hands. The exact Disciplines and number are up to the thaumaturge. This ritual was of ten used as a form of reward for service among the antttnbu. ## Requirements

The material component of this ritual is a silver mirror, a Trait of the caster's blood and one Trait of therecipient's blood. The caster mixes the blood Traits to get her and writes the name of the Disciplines she wishes to transfer onto the surface of the mirror. Once this is completed, both parties touch the mirror for the prescribed time. ## System

The ritual requires 15 minutes of contact per Discipline transferred. The Tremere player must succeed in a Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If she wins, the character transfers exactly the amount of the Discipline she intended. If the player ties, the caster transfers less than intended; if the player fails, the caster transfers more than intended. In either case, it is up to the Storyteller to be the fin al arbiter of exactly how much of the intended Discipline is transferred. You may not use this ritual to give a character a level of a Discipline that he could not normally achieve. In other words, you can not use the ritual to give a 13th-generation vampire a Master-Level Discipline. The transfer of Disciplines affects the do nor and recipient in the following way: The do nor looses Disciplines from the highest level do wn, and therecipient gains Disciplines from the lowest level up. Example: Cassiodorus, an aged Tremere, uses The Gift on Bobby, a Brujah in his service, to give Bobby Heightened Senses. Cassiodorus loses his highest level of the Auspex Discipline -In this case Psychic Projectton -at the end of the ritual. Transferred Disciplines can be bought back By the do nor at the normal Experience Trait costs. (See Laws of the Night, page 61.)

## IRON MIND

Ian looked do eon at the sobbing woman at his feet, the n glanced around quickly to see ifanyone could hear her cries fur help. He had always h a d a taste fur blondes, but they could never seem to keep their mouths shut when he tried to feedfrom him. It was really annoying. 'You bit me,' the woman sobbed, cowering her neck and sliding back up against the steps of her apartment building. 'Why did you bite me?'

Concentratingjust as his sire had taught him, i an reached into the woman's eyes with his own and said, 'I never bit you, woman. You were mugged by two men.' The woman grew quiet instantly as her mind processed the information Ian ha d planted there. how ever, he still had not had a chance to feed.... ## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOUBNAL

'Now close your eyes,' he said The woman obeyed. 'Tilt back your head. The woman did as lan commanded. 'Now relax.' The woman's should er's slumped. Conwinced that his victcm would gwe him no more problems, Ian closed his eyes and leaned close to the woman's cold neck like a lover with cold neck? so me thing struck lan in the chest and he flew backward through the air. A moment later, his back connected with afire-escape ladder and he crumpled to the ground, unable to move. so me thing was stuck through his chest. It felt like his weins were tied to a rock that was sinkinginquicksand. The petite blondestareddownat htmwithglowingredeyes, silhouetted against the flickenng streetlights. 'For a Keeper of Elysium, you're pretty dense,' she mocked, all traces of fear and submission gone. She hoisted him painfully onto her should er with one hand and leaped up to catch the fire escape with the other. 'At least it'llmake you easy to control. Bishop Mark likes them easy. '

This ritual is very useful when you do not wish to be spied upon through use of Auspex. of the anambu rituals, this one is used most frequently. how ever, use of this ritual when dealing with others in the Tremere hierarchy is not looked upon kindly. ## Requirements

This ritual requires an object, such as a hatpin or earring, that is made entirely of iron, and a lodestone that has been soaked in the blood of the caster forthree nights prior to the ritual. O n the third night, the caster must spend an hour speaking an incantation while rubbing the lodestone over the surface of theiron object. At the end of the hour, the object takes on a reddish color and is ready to as a hairpin, an use. The object must the n be worn on the head in some fashion -earring, a tlara or what ever. While the ritual is in effect, the caster is virtually immune to Auspex. Anyone attempting to use this Discipline on the caster not ices that so me thing is wrong, but not what. The effect of the ritual lasts until the next sunrise or until the object IS removed from the caster's head. ## System

The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits. If the player wins, the ritual is a success; if not, the ritual fails. While under the effects of this ritual, the character receives the Mental Traits: Ihscipkwd x5, which can only be used to defend against Auspex-related challenges. Additionally, the character receives a free retest on each Auspex-related challenge he loses. While under the effects of this ritual, acharacter may not relent to any Au challenge. Thus, you can not choose to let an all y communicate with yo1 Telepathy; you would have to lose both the initial challenge and the free retc communicate telepathically. ## S had O w o E T H F: W o LE

'Bretheren,' the ancient-looking Siker Fang called Knows-His-Words, said rily as dawn neared, 'you have defended this place well agams t our enemies, the w a m l Many of our kin have fallen this night, but their stories will be told through out the a

Some of the others grow led their agreement, but nos t p t sat stdm exhaustion and list

'Though the leeches' treachery war most foul,' the Fang continued, 'though tned to betray me under aflagof truce two nights ago, we hawe yet prewailed. your! will b e sung By the tale-keepers for ages hence. '

I

Again, theremaining Garou could raise only weary enthusiasm ower the Fang's words. Many had died in the night, and those left had suffered griewously. 'I want you to know,' the Fang continued, seeming to sag a bit where he stood, though his voice picked up speed, 'that you h a w e do ne me aserwice as well. You h a w e taken care of those who would have been my greatest riwals. forthat I will sing your praises. '

The others raised confused eyebrows at that, but the Silver Fang only smiled and took an illustrious bow. T h e sky lightened in the east. When t h e Fang tumd, his skin was lined with even more wrinkles than it h a d been a moment ago. His brow was h e a w y with concern, or so it seemed. 'And now I go to rest, ' he said, suddenly full of life despite his appearance. He raised his a m in a fluid motion and shrugged mightily. with a sound like a sheet tearing, he stepped back and sloughed of f the outer layer of h i s skin. Now, standing before theremaining Garou was a thin, pale man with a long black ponytail and a vicious smik. He bowed again, stepped back into the s M w of the trees and disappeared with the skin of Knows-His-Words danglingraggedfrom his hand. Before t h e Garou could rouse the mselwes t o give chase, they heard a sound like laughter in the for est surrounding the caem. All around the m, wague, twisted shapes clawed and squirmed out of the Umbra and crept closer.... This potent ritual all ows a vampire to actually become a Lupine for one evening. The material component is a cloak made from the skin of a were wolf. The tribe to which the vampire 'belongs' depends upon the type of skin used in the ritual; Auspice is always the urge. While the ritual imparts the form of a Lupine, it do es not bestow the vampire any Gifts, Rites or knowledge of how to act like a Garou. It behooves the vampire to have at least one level of Garou Lore before attempting this ritual. ## Requirements

The vampire must chant over the ill-gotten Lupine skin for an hour-and-a-half while sprinkling his own blood around it. At the end of that time, the vampire do ns the cloak, which fuses to his own skin fortheremainder of the evening. Once this process is complete, the vampire becomes (for all intents and purposes) a Lupine. The cloak separates from the vampire at sunrise, and may be reused, although the ritual must be repeated each time the vampire wishes to become a were wolf there after. ## System

Upon completion of the ritual, the player engages in a Static Mental Challenge versus 14 Traits to determine if the ritual is successful. The player needs to create a were wolf character and identity using his vampire as a basis. The Lupine is subject to all the advantages and limitations of a normal Garou. It may change for ms and it is vulnerable to silver. The were wolf begins with two Rage for each Beast Trait that the caster possesses, and one Gnosis. The player may attempt to raise the se ratings asa normal Lupine would. If the caster reuses the cloak, the player must engage in a Simple Test to see if the skin is still viable for the ritual. The Garou Gift: Scent of True form detects that there is so me thing amiss about the 'were wolf,' but it gives no specifics. The Garou Gift: Sense Wyrm detects Wyrm-taint if the vampire possess more than two Beast Traits. Unless the character has some level of the Ability: Garou Lore, he finds it nigh impossible to interact with Garou society. ## s PIDER'S WEB

Marcel sliced the window pane away with hs glass-cutter and jimmied the lock open The place ddn't even hawe an alarm system, which was odd, consdenng how adamant the man who'd hired him -a creepy old fart named Regrnald -had been about not gettmg caught Marcel med to tell t h e guy that nobody would go to so much trouble to protect a book, but the old dude ddn't listen. It seemed Marcel was nght, after all. As usual

With barely a sound, he pushed open the window sash, pushed back t h e heavy black curtain ands~ppedquietly ins&amp;. He seemed to b e insome sort of drawingroom, but that was all h e could tell. Severaldusty c h r s cluttered the flour The do ur to the hallway (wluchwould hopefully lead t o the basement where Regnald sad the book would be) hung open Keeping close to tha w&amp; to awoid squeaky floorboards, Marcel made hs way into the hallway

The corndm was pitch-dark. The intruder went no more t h n A few steps when his leg tangled in so me thing and he had to stop. He tned to brace himself to pull himself free -it felt like he'd stepped onto a huge flysmp -but he only managed to get his ann entangled a. 5 well. After A few moments of squirming, Marcel realized that he was completely trapped what felt like grasping lquid hands He desperately decided to use his ghs-cutter when the lights in the hallway snapped on almost audibly. When the spots stopped dancing in front of h i s eyes, Marcel could see what ha d entangled him: webs Either hundreds of them or one mother-lowin' huge one. He started to struggle frantically -what kind of spider makes webbing like this? -but he only succeeded in minng himself further. From behind, Marcel heard footsteps followed b y cold laughter He could not even turn his heal to look by that point

''order-in dining' indeed,' an old woman mused seemingly to herself entertaining, Reonald. Quite entertaining '

'Quite

This ritual all ows a vampire to create a web that resembles an actual spider's web in all respects. The difference is that the webbing can fill an entire room and is strong enough to capture and hold victims immobile The webbing lasts until it is tom do wn, making it an excellent defense for a have n. ## Requirements

Before enacting this ritual, the vampire must obtain a black widow spider and feed it vitae on seven consecutive evenings. O n the fin al evening, crushes the spider in a marble container and consumes it While invoking a chant, the vampire begins to exude webbing from her hands. This webbing can be shnned into any form and can cover up to 400 square feet. ## System

The player must win a Static Mental Challenge versus 12 Traits to coml this ritual successfully. The character is immune to any webbing he creates; he can move fi through out it. This do es not mean, how ever, that the character can climb or strands. He simply do es not get stuck as others do. If a different character contacts the web, he is stuck. A victim may attem tear or cut himself free by winning three Static Physical Challenges versus t Traits. Potence retests are all owed. If a character wishes to enter the web and avoid getting stuck, a test is reqi using a dexterity-based Physical Trait (Nimble, Athletic) versus 12 Traits. ~

I

## COMBINED DISCIPLINES for THE LONG NIGHT by Shane De Freeat

Eye the atre characters in The h g Night have an opportunity to get in on the actton! Fans of Vampire: the Dark Ages are privy to severalspecialpowersthatresultfromcombining Disciplines. Experiencedvampires, thosewhohave had numerous decades(even centuries)toexploreandexperimentwith theiruniquepowers, meld the sesupernaturalcapabilitiestodiscover hiddenskill. of courseitsonlyfairthat Mind

Presented here are several Discipline-combin ation powers that can be found in Vampire The Dark Ages, built for use in The Long Night.." future Libellus Sanguinis releases show case the unique capabilities of the clans, expect more combin ation Disciplines to rise under the light of the moon. Learning a combin ation Discipline requires a great deal of effort. In add it i on to requiring certain levels of proficiency in various Disciplines, combin ation Disciplines have their own Experience Trait costs. Furthermore, many of the se powers are known to only A few scattered members of specific clans; such esoterica requires unusual dedication and study. A Storyteller is well with in rights to limit the selection of available combin ation Disciplines, requiring characters to seek out elder mentors and to under take harrowing training and quests in pursuit of the se unusual capabilities. ## ARMOROE DARKNESS

(Basic for titude, Intermediate Obtenebration)

We lured the damned thing that used to be wise Lord Albert into the stables. The brave lads who muck the stalk; barred the do or s, locking the monster inside. Archibald, the for mer squire to the unliving knight, ordered torches lightedandflame-arrows not ched. At his order, we rained our fire on the stables, turnzng the dry tinder to a beacon that pushed back the night. We hughedin contempt at Lord Albert's unholy screamsfor mercy and absolutton. the n, suddenly, the screams turned tomocking laughter, and the burnmg stabledoorflewapart likematchsticks. Archibaldfroze: therein the do or way, silhouetted by hungry flame and crashing ruin, stood Lord Albert m amor darker than nighted shadow. Albert advanced on his erstwhile squire, but I learned not the fate of either. Devil hound us all, the others and I fled, leaving Archibald to hu fate. Combining a vampire's preternatural resilience with the inky shadowstuff of Obtenebration, some Magisters are able to cloak the mselves in adarkness that resists the pall of fire and sunlight. So armored, the se fearsome Lasombra venture into even daylight to further their schemes. expenditure of a Social Trait, you may choose to shape it into the guises of various for ms of night-black clothing or armor. Armorof Darknessshieldsyou from the effects of fire and sunlight, asamantleof blacknesswraps about yourbody. You should wear a special card prominently to indicate your use of this Discipline, as the for bidding black shielding is quite not iceable. or mally, the darkness simplyformslkeashadowycloak, but with he

Activating Armor of Darkness requires the expenditure of a will power Trait, and the further expenditure of three Mental Traits for each level of protection. Maintaining the armor the n requires concentration; all actions undertaken while garbed increase in diff iculty by one Trait. The armor lasts until destroyed by fire or sunlight; each level of protection absorbs one level of damage from such sources, until the shadows are burned away. Learning this power requires commerce with one of the few and secretive Magisters who practices it, and it costs eight Experience Traits. ## AURAOE INESCAPABLE TRUTH

(Intermediate do min ate, Intermediate Presence)

'Who invited you to my court?' the Ventrue Prince Valmont asked, peering lazily from his oaken throne. The assassin thoughtfun'ously, silently recounting the details of the story he'd practiced time and again, and than king the Maker that he could no longer sweat. The pnnce's harpies and his wizened, scrawny seneschal leaned closer. they eyed t h e assassin like circling wultures--merely interestedat present, but in strikingdistance skould things turn to theirfawor. 'I... ' the assassin stammered, h i s fingers twitching toward the poisoned knife in h i s s l e e w e sheathe. Why couldn't h e just use his story? He could remember it; why couldn't he just say it? 'Tell me why you have come to my do main!'

'I... the seneschal hired me to kill you,' the assassin gasped. 'I see,' Valmont said, leaning back, glancing at his second as his harpies and guards closed ranks. 'How interesting....'

A favorite of Ventrue courts, this for midable power combines direct mental control with subtle influence to for ce subjects to speak only the truth. Though taxing, this power is unquestionably vital to the political battlefields of elder Cainites. When establishing the Aura of Inescapable Truth, you must expend a will power Trait, and the n engage in a mass Social Challenge against everyone who can see your face (risking one Social Trait for each target). If you win the challenge, nobody under the influence of the power may deliberately speak untruthfully; those who attempt to do so simply find the mselves unable to speak at all, though a target may still speak an untruth if he behewes it to be true. The Aura of Inescapable Truth do es not for ce victims to remain with in your presence, nor do es it continue to function if they leave. The power's activation and influence are automatically not iceable to anyone affected. As with all do min ate powers, vampires of lower generation than yourself are unhindered by this power, although this may not be immediately apparent. This power costs 11 Experience Tram to dewelop. ## BLESSED RESILIENCE

(Master for titude, Intermediate Mortis) is awztall, begmnzngtoend. I w a therewhenmymasterfellto thebngands'swords. they encircled him like apack of do gs, the n fell on him like staraed ravens. He met them bravely, his 'own sword biting deep, but the brigands were too many. My heart broke to merely watch-with outgivingaidbut1 had my orders. 'Those of my blood have made dire enemies,' my master said. 'Should I fall to treachery, you must deliver my body to my sanctum and wait with it there.'

I protested when h e told me, but tonight I saw him fall, and I have do ne as I was bid. I have loved and served my master well, but I fear that even his s&amp; s of death and the soul are no match f o r But lo, h e s ti n! God be puisedforreturningmy master t o mefium beyond the very graue! Let his enemies tremble! Yes, come, master. Take m y hand.... With command of incredible resilience and unmatched insight into the secrets of death, the Cappadocians are the undisputed masters of death during the Long Night. for the truly dedicated Cappadocian, even the grave itself may be over come. When extinguishedbeaten, burned, cut or otherwise driven to Fin al Death -you may draw upon your monumental reserves to pull yourself back across the threshold of destruction. You immediately expend all of your remaining Blood Traits and two will power Traits (plus one additional will power Trait for each severed limb that must re-attach to your body). If you do not have sufficient will power, you fail to rise. Otherwise, your body parts crawl back to get her and reknit (as long as they are nearby -with in about 10 paces or so). You the n return to the Incapacitated health level. When you exercise Bkssed Resilience, you tax your supernatural reserves to their absolute limits. Effectively, your generation rises by one -a seventhgeneration Cappadocian using this power is considered eighth-generation afterward, with all of the concomitant losses to Blood Traits, will power Traits, Attribute Traits and high-level Disciplines. This weakening is permanent, though you may still lower your generation later through diablerie. Unearthing the masterful Blessed Resilience costs 18 Experience Traits. ## BLOOD PBARLOETHE~OMBU

(Basic Mortis, Basic Necromancy, Basic Thaumaturgy, and at least two Intermediate levels or one Advanced level in the se Disciplines)

I wasn't good enough, they said. they told me I did n't have the power and discipline to control the dead. of ficious bastards. Augustus wouldn't have put up with thutgarbage i f they'd said it to him. I studied the dead, magic and the occult -the modern the or ies -for years before the se 'scholars' came along. I know what I'mdoing. The deadcandance on my strings just as easily as theirs. I uncovered this body myself. I preserved it. I even infused my blood into the pearl completely on my o m. And the corpse rises, just like I said it would. It rises! Now I'll show those bastards who's 'not good enough'! The rombu, more commonly called 'zombies,' are unfailing servants of the Clan of Death. For young members of the clan, the necessary expertise in the Mortis Discipline is impossible to achieve due to the simple impediment of generation. how ever, by combining research of therecently inducted Giovanni with more general magical knowledge, it is possible for even novices to develop a means to create unliving servants. By distilling two Blood Traits into a special magical pearl-like sphere (a process requiring eight hours of work, and thus generally performed outside the confines of game time), you may enchant your blood to animate a corpse. Success

[in; you must place the blood pearl in the mouth of the corpse and make?ental Challenge (difficulty 6). If you succeed, the for merly inert corpse qombu under your direct control fortheremainder of the evening,; into dust at sunrise. zombu has the Attribute Traits it possessed in life, although Dextrous, i d Quick are replaced with Tenacious, Tireless or Tough. The creation also. e health levels it possessed in life, but do es not suffer wound penalties. blood pearl created by this ritual works on only true corpses -vampires are not atfected by it. a library or mentor after achieving therequisite levels of skill in Disciplines. As a ritual, this power do es not cost Expenence Traits, but it must be studiedfrom

## BODY ARMORY

## (Intermediate Protean, Intermediate Vicissitude)

Reinhart clutched the ruby tight in one fist and crouched in the moonshadow of the baron's castle. A few quick seconds would put him in the woods and near enough to the river where he'd h&amp; n his rowboat. He heard that the baron was no man to make an enemy of some rumurs ewen suggested that the lord devoured those who crossed him -but Reinhart cared only for the ruby. It had belonged to his family before the baron had established his 'do main' here. Let the peasants whisper about the 'hellspawn' that guarded the baron's gates; Reinhart had seen none when he sneaked in. Let the ignorant fanners believe that the nobleman drank blood and tortured his enemies for amusement; all Reinhart knew was that in another few moments he would reach his boat and be safely away with the means to restore his family's for tune. 'Ah, Hew Reinhart,' a thzckly accented voice said as a hand fell heavily on his should er. Reinhart turned to see the baron himself, dressed in all his lordly finery, peering do wn at him. Reinhart had not ewen heard him approach. 'I believe you are trespassing.'

Reinhartmadeasiftosay so me thing, but anobjectin the baron'shandgave himpawe. It appeared to be a spade, but it seemed to grow and elongate, like watchingan icicle melt, until the baronappe~edtobeholdinga~kedly longspearhead. Reinhartquailedas the lord spoke again, raising the weapon into the moonlight. When the baron did so, Reinhart could see that he held no object in his hand at d; the insmment held aloft was the man's hand. “and my dea Reinhart, thereisnothingworsethananuninwitedguest.. sorts of hand-held weapons. Byreshapingfleshandbone, you can for mdistinctiveanddangerousweapons. the seitemshaveallof the Traitsassociatedwithnormalweaponsof theirtype, and they inflict aggravated damage. As the se tools are still part of you, they can not be given to others—you literallyreshapeyour limbs into the likenessesofvarious

Turning a limb into a weapon with this power costs one Blood Trait, two Traits for two-handed weapons. Only hand weapons may be imitated -you can not fashion a bow and arrows out of your body. This power costs nine Expenence Traits. ## DARK STEEL

(Intermediate Obtenebratiun, Intermediate Potence)

'You hide from me in darkness, ' Adrienne sighed, her lilting voice carrying into the rocky niche where Michael hid, halfway up the cold mountainside. 'How quaint.'

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL

Michaeldrewhiskneestighttohischestandtriednottolethisbillowingbreath-clouds revealhishidingplace. Iblindpanic, hehadfledupthemountainoutsidehisvillagewhen Adriennecameforhim, and nowhewastrapped. Afearful teartracedanicy linedowm his face. Adriennewas beautiful, but deadly, damnedandcompletely insane. "Iwouldhavemadeyoumyhusband, Michael,"Adriennetaunted, ervoicecloser. "We could have been to get her therest of our lives."

Michael almost shot back that he would sooner be wed to a fishmonger's spotty daughter than to the blasphemous parody of a woman Adrienne had become, but a sound outside his hiding place stopped him. so me thing long and h e a w y slid along the ground outside. It sounded like someone dragging a tree. 'But you denied me, Michael,' Adrienne went on. 'You should h a w e run sooner and farther.' As she spoke, a column of ebon smoke (or so it seemed to Michael) snaked into his shelter and coiled around h ankle like an iron manacle. He shrieked, and t h e black t e n t a c l e hoisted him roughly out of the h o l e and into the air. He dangkd upside do wn li k e an animal caught in a snare, blubbenng in terror as Adrienne -beautiful, damned Adrienne -emergedfrm t h e shadows. T h e t e n t a c l e around Michael's foot curried him closer w her. 'Now, Michael, let us talk of Hell and the fury that only it can cowet.'

Perhaps one of the most fearsome combin ation powers known, Dark Steel imbues the shades of Obtenebration with the unnatural might of Potence. Shade tentacles conjured with the Arms of Ahriman become frighteningly strong. Should you choose to use Dark Steel, you must expend a Blood Trait upon activating Arms of Ahriman. Summoning the tentacles the mselves proceeds as usual, but the tentacles have six Physical Traits, plus two more Physical Traits for each additional Blood Trait expended. Learning this power requires the expenditure of nine Expm'ence Traits. ## HATCHTHE VIPER

## (Basic Protean, Intermediate Seeentis)

'Bring him before me,' Gillem proclaimed, motioning the guards to stand back and let the wisitorstepforward. 'I will hear this blackguard's message in the prince's absence. It is better than he deserwes, certainly.'

The wisitur, a suspected Follower of Set, strode for ward, smiling audaciously at the prince's seneschal, ewen winking at Gillem! The pnnce's courtiers tittered at that, but none of them showed the proper decorum by deigning to scoff. Gillem made a not e to himself that it was time for new attendants. The pnnce would have to be made aware of that when he returned. 'You have a message?' the seneschal asked, when the all eged Setite stopped boldly in front of him. He was, admittedly, rather hand so me up close, ifa bit aloof. The Setiteonly noddedalittlestiffly, but saidnothing. Gillemleanedcloser, towenng ower the slim Egyptian man. 'the n speak.'

The Egyptian's +-oat pulsedand h e opened his mouth w i t h a reptihn hiss. Gillem cried to scream, but it was too late. so me thing grubbed his throat in an iron grip and began to coil abouthisneckandshoul. T~Setiteonlysmi Ldandwanlshedbefore Gi Uem'sbulgifigeyes. A disturbing power known to only Setites, this combin ation of Disciplines all ows a Serpent to disgorge a living viper from his very mouth. The Follower of Set concentrates his vitae and for ms it into a serpentine ghoul, which he vomits forth in a horrifying gout of scaly flesh. A full turn of concentration must precede the birth of a serpent, and you must expend two Blood Traits. The serpent is considered a ghoul and exhibits the for atude Discipline at the level of Endurance. with a poisonous bite, the viper can be deadly to mortals; it is considered to possess the Physical Traits: Lithe x2 and Qwck x2. If the serpent is not fed one Blood Trait every week, it dissolves into poisonous blood-like bile that causes two health levels of damage to anyone foolish enough to drink it. You may sustain more than one serpent, but each must be fed blood if it is to survive. Serpents created with this power typically display distinctive patterns and personalities that may be traced to their creator. your Storyteller can is sue a card representing your ghoulish serpents. This power costs nine Expenence Traits. ## THE ILLNESS UNVEILED

(Basic Ausgex, Master for titude)

'Heismostgnevously ill,' the hermitsaid, leaningover the sickchild's body tospeak to his mother. 'You are wise to have brought h z m to me.'

'I than kyou, but the ysayyouservethe Devil,'Magdastammered, unsettledBy the hermit's gaze. 'In t h e town, that is, sir. But not I.' T h e hermit only laughed at Magda's dscomfort and laul IS with ered hands on her son's for ehead. He sard no prayers; he used no herbs; he d d not even light t h e fire beneath t h e iron pot in the comer of h i s cabin. T h e apothecary in topun s a d that thts man could heal her son, but Magda grew m e and more uneasy By the moment. The boy suddenly broke out in a cold sweat, his legs twitching and kicking. His lips bared back from his teeth m a snarl, and his back arched. Skll, the hermit said not hing; he only stood with his gnarled, rootlike hands on the boy's face. Magda's eyes grew wzde -surely this was not natural! T h e townsfolk were nght; this hermit was in l e a g u e with Satan. She wavered, the n reached a tentatwe hand toward her son, the other makinga cr u d e wardinggesture. The hermit's wiry hands tlghtened on her son, and in one fin al gasp the boy lay silent. 'the worstispassing,' the hermitsadat last. the oldmanlookedlikehehadexerted himselfagreathal, but did not seem to be breathinghard. 'The boy will recover in time.' The hermit stood silent for a moment, the n glanced up at Magda. A s the woman put a hand on her son's brow, the hermit grabbed her wnst. 'And now,' he whispered, 'kt us discuss my payment.'

By diagnosing a victim through the use of supernatural senses, and the n sharing vampiric preternatural resilience, it is possible to help mortals through the throes of dangerous diseases. In an age rife with plagues and sickness, this is a very useful ability for keeping one's retainers alive (especially for the Cappadocians, who se Lamia servitors have an unfortunate tendency to pass on rather hideous and fatal infections). You must make a Static Mental Challenge (difficulty eight Traits) in order to diagnose a disease successfully; this diagnosis is subject to the limitations of your Medicine knowledge. Once you diagnose a disease, you may bolster the victim's resistance with your own. Make a Static Physical Challenge with a difficulty determined By the nature of the disease: five Traits for a common cold, up to nine for typhoid and 12,15 or more for particularly nasty afflictions such as Black Plague (the Lamia disease rates 18 Traits). A successful challenge all ows the victim to begin recovering, although the process may still take days or weeks. This power costs 10 Expenence Trazts to learn. ## RETAin the QUICK BLOOD

(Intermediate Celerity, Intermediate Quietus)

Right now, I am 'feeding. ' I appeared in silence and scythed through the gwcrds and retainers of this city's prince OM hour ago, only to use up the last of my vitae before laying into my 'true' quarry. I barely escaped the pnnce's chambers before he called for reinforcements; the fact that I had to leave clues as to my destin ation only made matters do ubly difficult. Now the city's 'sheriff' -one Eric Fit?-Walter -comes for me, confident in the assumption that I stalk the streets for kine blood before I can make good my escape. He has beenstompingaroundjust out of sight since his shockedprince ordered meapgrehended. I have had no chance tostopandfeed, and this sheriffdoubtlessly believes I am at the end of my reserves. He is so confident. wouldn't h e b e surprised to know that even as I slow to wait for him, my strength returns of its own accord? wouldn't he be surpnsed to learn that his very prince hired me to 'get the bothersome Mister Fit?-Walter out of the way'? I think h e would. Ah, he approaches. Perhaps I will ask him. The fearsome Assamites are capable of maintaining the power of their vitae, even after calling upon their blood for the preternatural speed of Celerity. An Assamite can cause the blood that energizes his limbs to trickle slowly back into his system to be spent again. When using this power, all Blood Traits expended for Celerity in a given conflict return after an hour. Should you ingest additional blood during this period, any returning blood that would exceed your normal Blood Trait limit is lost. Thus, if a vampire with a full blood pool expends two Traits of blood for Celerity, the n drinks a single Blood Trait, thereturning vitae simply grants one Blood Trait -the second returning Trait is lost because the vampire is already at the limit of his blood capacity. Returning blood 'wasted' In this fashion literally seeps out of the vampire's pores and tear ducts -a disturbing sight indeed. Mastery of this power requires the expenditure of eight Experience Traits. ## SHADOWED BYES

## (Intermediate Auspex, Intermediate Obtenebration)

Rudolphand Geraldstudied the body that lay b y the crossroads. It was Lord Albert's, for certain. they had been given the 'demon's' description in painstaking detail b y the bishop. Rut rather than find the rampaging terror of the nighted country side (as they'd been told), they found this lifeless, unmoving corpse. Apparently, either the rumms were all false or the villagers had dealt with their own probkm. Quite a bother, actually. 'Dead as they get,' Gerald said, spitting on the cold body's lifeless face. 'Dead and dumped. ' Hissalivaraninto t h e blackpools where ravenshadalready been at lord Albert's eyes. 'don't make sense,' Rudolph observed, turning away from the discomforting body and lookinginto the surrounding woods, as ifexpectinganattack. 'Too simple. And why did n't anybody tell us when we got in? And why ha'en't wolves been at the body if he's been dead a while!'

Gerald stood next to his long time partner. As they talked, neither not iced Lord Albert's 'corpse' stir. The vampire sat up silently. T h e pools of blackness fell away from his eyes like water drainingfrom a bath. out raged b y Gerald's insult, Albert wiped the spit from his face and stood to his full height, a blood-song singing in his ears. 'Mighty hunters,' he sneered. 'Here is your prey.' e ough any Magister can see through the blackness created with his own use tebration, the blinding and smothering effects of the darkness disorient foes. L Lasombra needs to discomfit an opponent with out relying upon blatant of shadow-shaping, precise control is required, as evidenced by this power. ien you invoke Shadowed Eyes (at the cost of one Physical Trait), you 2 small patches of blackness that surround the eyes of your target. Obvilis blackness blinds your foe (see Laws of the Hunt for rules on darkness, 7) and renders his appearance most unsettling (bestowing the Negative 'rait: Bestial). Alternately, you may use this power on yourself, enabling you iidate your adversaries while retaining the ability to sense your surround-~ p. uoing so grants you the additional Social Trait: Intimidating. Shadowed Eyes remain for the duration of the conflict or for 10 minutes. Learning Shadowed Eyes costs six Experience Traits. ## SMOTHERINC~ DARKNESS

(Basic Obfuscate, Basic Obtenebration)

I chant and cry along with the others in the mob, though I feel a different fervor than they do. they are filled with faith in their only-god, and they believe that they will rout this vampire with not hing more than piety and torches. they are fools. We crest the hill -the mob and I -and the vampire pee ts us from the battlements of his stronghold. He has the gall to wave as we come boilingover the crest likefire-bearing ants; he h a s even left hisgate open in mockinginvitation. Were I like the others In this mob, I might b e afraid at his cavalier fearlessness, but I am not like the others. I under stand my enemy. I alone have any power over him. As the mob comes with in bowshot of the stronghold, the vampire suddenly s t a d up straight and lifts his a m, as i f to welcome us. Many with in the mob shout insults or condemnations, and most gesture angrily with their torches. I do not. I carry no torch. Moments later, a mass of black shapes erupts from just behind the vampire and streams towardus. Oneamong themobshouts, 'Bats,' but1 know better. T h e blackshapesarrow straight for the torches, extinguishing the flames like vile black rain. Instantly, the night closes in on u s and the mob erupts into chaos. Not I. I lift my head and shout defiance. I needed the others to lead me here. Now I shift do wn to four clawed feet and dart through the mass of terrified humans t o the open gate. The blooddrinker will be mine. Mobile, 'living' shadows are the hallmark of the Obtenebration Discipline, but with this power, you can send batlike shades to extinguish of fending light sources -torches, lamps, can dles and such. the shadows flit about, surrounding and smothering the brightest lights in the are a, plunging the place into darkness. You must see (or otherwise sense) the light source that you wish to extinguish with this power. Each Mental Trait expended causes a shadow to seek out and extinguish one flame or light, up to the size of a torch. Particularly large flames may be susceptible to multiple shadows, at the Storyteller's discretion. the se shadows have actual physical substance. Though they can not injure, they can certainly startle and confuse; shadows summoned with out a target flap about, causing noise and bumping into things for the duration of the conflict (or 10 minutes). This power costs five Experience Traits to learn. Laws of the Night 1999

* i ANY MOTHFR'S CHILD by Carl Bowen Inspired by a Vampire character created by Hannah Curry We intend to include a piece of World of Darkness fiction in every is sue of t h e Journal. We hope to show case talented new writers (one of w h o m I am not -new, that is) who might not have a chance to appear elsewhere. Plus, fiction dealing with the World of Darkness of fers insightsinto thelivesand timesof the people (i. e., the chracters) who inhabitit, and suchinsights of Jeryou(asplarersand Storytellers)~vorandspice tomake your Mind's Eye the atregames all t h e m e attractiwe. Mind's Eye the atre releases should b e simultaneously entertaining and useful. T h i s piece, in particular, serves as a look at how derangements driwe characters to dangerous, thoughtless deeds, yet can sometimes serwe to make them all too human. t

The mother grabbed her daughter By the collar a bit too roughly and pulled her close. People pressed in on all sides, crowding to get on the trains that would take them away from the war-blighted country side to one of the ghetto-towns. The mother feared losing her daughter in the crowd. they had been marched to the train yard days away from their home, and not once had the woman let her daughter out of her sight. The girl told her mother that she was supposed to get on a different train, but the mother did n't listen. She stoically led her daughter to her own train the trainshe should be boarding with her husband and son -determined that she would keep the girl with her. Dmitri, the father, had to fight. He had to demand that the soldiers leave them alone. The soldiers took the boy first; a soldier shot him through the head as Dmitri stared in mute horror. Dmitri fell next as his wife and daughter looked on. It all happened so fast that the mother had no chance to do anything before the soldiers restrained her. they would probably have killed Dmitri anyway, but if he had n't tried to fight the m, perhaps.... Now, the mother would not be left alone. She clamped a vise-like hand on her daughter's should er and moved toward her own train. She would not raise her coming unborn child alone. The soldiers would not tell them why they were being herded and prodded. they were not even Jewish as many of the shouting, jeering soldiers seemed to think, but there seemed to be no reason other than random chance why she and her daughter should be split up. Perhaps if she got her daughter onto the train with her before the soldiers not iced.... A sharp blow to the back sent the mother sprawling, dragging her daughter to the ground with her. She turned to see a soldier towering over her with his rifle up raised, his body silhouetted in the last red rays of sunset. He shouted at her in his language that sounded like barking do gs, the n pointed at the girl. The mother clutched her daughter tighter with one hand and put the other to her stomach. The soldier brought the rifle stock do wn on her again, sending screaming white non-images through her brain. He shouted and pointed again, looking even more like a barking do g, his billowing winter-breath like an enraged can ine's froth. Others of his pack gathered around, pushing back people who tried to see what was going on. One of the soldiers grabbed the woman's daughter and tried to pull her to her feet. The girl clutched more tightly to her mother. The screaming soldier brought the rifle do wn again, still shouting his unintelligible language, and the world went dark. Or perhaps the sun finally set. The mother could not tell. v r

The woman almost catches the lone girl, but the or phan is clever and eludes capture. The woman looks in trashdumpsters and glances occasionally at creaking fire escapes, but the girl is nowhere to be found. Surely she do es not think that the woman would hurt her? She only wants to take care of the child. To give her a home and family again. To protect her. This is no place to be alone. v v

The mother awoke in a cold tent with a bandage above her left eye and a frightening soreness beneath her stomach. She heard the muted sound of the soldiers' barking outside, and she could see that the sun had long since set. The air still smelled like crowds and machine oil, so she knew she was in the train yard, but she wondered why she had not been packed unconscious onto one of the trains. The woman lifted her head stiffly and looked around for her daughter. The girl was not in the tent. Perhaps that was why the woman had not been moved. Maybe her daughter had been sent on ahead. Alarmed, the woman called out the girl's name. 'She has not been harmed,' a voice assured her in broken Polish. 'She is waiting. Calm yourself.'

The woman turned, sore muscles protesting, to find a tall soldier slouching just inside the tent flap. He wore a long leather coat, belted at the waist, with a bent-edged cross on a red arm band below his left should er. He removed his hat, smoothed his close-cut blond hair and crouched do wn beside her. Reluctantly, she calmed do wn. 'You put up fight,' the man said, his sparkling blue eyes boring into her with an unsettling fascin ation. 'Why?'

Certainly, she had n't been the only one to do so. W h y had this soldier singled her out? 'Where is my daughter?'

'Yes, I see,' the man nodded, apparently understanding only the last two words of the woman's answer. 'Loyalty is most noble, no?'

'My daughter...'

'Yes, yes,' the man said. He lay a hand absently on the woman's leg, where it showed through a rip in her skirt. 'I keep you to get her so me where else. You will not go the bad towns with the cattles.'

The woman said not hing; she only shivered in dread. Her daughter would be returned to her and they would be spared what ever fate awaited those who rode the trains, but they would survive on the mercy of this man. This man with his unsettling eyes. The woman squirmed in the grasp he had on her leg. His hand was unnaturally cold, even in the winter air. What was more, his breath did not make white clouds when he spoke. The old woman stops her search and stands alone in the middle of the street. young people on either side pause to look at her (this strange, frantic creature wearing outdated, shapeless homespun). they move on with out interest when she fails to amuse the m. - +? She has lost sight of the or phan-child. It is not the first time -she has birthed many children who fled her or fell from grace -but each is still heart-breaking in its own way. Why must they always go? Why can none of them trust her and stay with her when all she wants to do is protect them and take care of the m? Not even her friends -those too old to be her childrenbelieve her capable of this. Why? And where is the child? do esn't she know that the soldiers are out there right now, lying in wait to take her unawares? v v

The woman did not see the tall blond man again for several months. The morning after she and her daughter were reunited, a truck full of leering, slavering soldiers arrived and packed them of f to an encampment miles from their home. When they arrived, a kapo -a rail-thin, balding man who sneered behind the backs of the soldiers, though he treated the prisoners no less roughly -took them to a cramped tent behind a ramshackle barracks and ordered them to remain there until summoned. He spoke only the barking language, but his angry gestures and the short cudgel he was all owed to carry said enough. i e they stayed, clinging to each other wordlessly, until the kapo returned. He ordered the mother to stand and follow him, which she did with trembling knees. She whispered to her child to stay in the tent until she came back, and the kapo hit her across the mouth. Clamping a powerful hand around her elbow, he dragged her away from her child. Her unborn baby gave a feeble kick, and was still. The woman stops and listens to the night wind. The barren street rustles with discarded litter and scurrying, furtive footsteps, but no one reveals himself in the garish pink-or ange of the streetlights. The child is gone, but now someone follows the woman. Faint footsteps begin to grow louder and more distinct, and someone calls her name from a great distance. Panicking, the woman darts away in the direction she last saw the child. She must find the girl before the other one -the one in pursuit -tries to take her. The woman has do ne too much, suffered too much, to let anyone take the child now. She hears the crying of a lost and lonely soul, and she homes in on it like an arrow. The child will be safe; she will see to that. v v

for the next few months, the woman lived in Hell. Every day, sometimes as many as five or six times, the kapo dragged her to yet another of the do g-soldiers to be abused. Life so far from the front, in the harsh winter climate, had stoked raging furnaces in the soldiers' hearts. When there were no men to kill, the woman served as that rage's only vent. Aside from her daughter, she was the only female for miles, and 'subhuman' (as they told her she was) or not, she filled a niche. In the first weeks, when ever she came into the presence of a soldier who had not yet seen her, she would beg him to not hurt her. She pleaded on behalf of her unborn child; she cried out of her own fear; she pleaded that if she died, no one would take care of her daughter. not hing changed the soldiers' minds. Those who even under stood her only laughed or beat her. The woman eventually learned not to beg. It brought only more abuses and punishments, and the very mention of her daughter brought frightening, 4D

'Finished with what?' her daughter asked, shaken By the strange look in her mother's eyes. She did not know exactly where the kapo takes her mother each day, but she knew why. Over the months, she had seen the toll such treatment had takenon the older woman. The life had long since vanished from her mother's eyes. The girl shivered and huddled against the thin fabric of the tent. 'don't be afraid,' her mother said, taking of f her dirty, threadbare scarf. 'Put this on.'

The or phan recoils as the strange woman takes the ancient shawl from around her should ers and places it around the girl's, but she can not move away. The intensity of the woman's brown eyes pins her. 'What's this for? I don't know you.' v

The woman flinched at that, but she did not back away. 'It will be cold,' she said. 'they're coming for you. Put this on.'

Her daughter obeyed meekly, and the woman slipped the scarf around her neck and under her dark-brown hair. She wrapped it twice and laid the ends between the vague curves of the girl's budding breasts. As her daughter sat uncomfortably looking at her, the woman held the ends lightly between her fingers. ## v v

'You're scaring me,' the girl says, swallowing and stretching her slender neck uncomfortably. She looks past the woman's should er and sees someone come into view do wn the all ey. The woman do esn't seem to not ice. 'they're coming,' the woman says again. 'they don't want me this time. they want you.'

'Who?' the girl says. 'Who are they?'

'they're devils,' the woman tells her, her hands closing over the ends of the scarf. 'they're through with me, and now they want to take you. they can't terrorize me any more, but they know you're still afraid of the m.'

At that moment, the girl was more afraid of her mother than any soldier, and she leaned back, trying to put distance between the two of the m. Her mother only bent closer, pulling uncomfortably on the ends of the scarf. 'they can not take you.' v

'No one's coming,' the girl says, gulping audibly under the edge of the woman's shawl. 'I don't know what you're talking about. No one's trying to take me anywhere.'

The strange woman with the flying, wild brown hair and the intense brown eyes only sighs. 'It's all right, my dearest. I won't let the m.' She looks do wn, and absently lays a hand aside her stomach. v v

'Please,' the daughter said, her voice a bit thin. Her green eyes flashed and showed the whites. She gulped even louder. 'Be quiet now, sweetheart.'

'Everything will be fine.'

The girl's eyes bulge and her hands shoot to her neck, but her fingers only pluck at the fabric there before falling back to rest meekly in her lap. The woman hears a vague sound like running steps, but knows it is only her he art be at thundering in her ears. Or perhaps her daughter's he art be at. It is so hard to tell. The girl sits upright in one last spasm, and her chin jerks up to the hazy night sky. The mother wonders briefly if she can see the gates of Heaven as it is rumored those trapped in Hell can do. 'You are free, little one,' she whispers. 'they will not find you. they can not take you.' She holds the child to her chest and cradles her, a tear of bitter triumph tracing a line do wn her nose and falling on the girl's face. v v

The mother covered her daughter's cold body with the thin sheet they had to share at night, and turned to leave her tent. The do g soldiers would probably kill her, but she was not afraid. She had not been for months. Maybe the kapo would be the first one to find her and deal with her. The best part about being in Hell, she knew, was that there were always devils close by if you needed the m. As she exited the tent and took a deep, cold breath, the woman found herself proven right. there before her stood the tall, blond soldier she had n't seen in months. He looked exactly the same, do wn to the folds in his long, belted leather jacket. The band on his arm blazed a fierce red, drawing her eyes to the bent-edged cross in the center. She was almost glad. The soldier glanced into the tent at the body of the child and cocked a thin yellow eyebrow. His blue eyes sparkled with amazement. 'A relation of yours?'! he asked. His accent was still horrible, but he seemed to have acquired a better grasp of Polish. Or maybe the mother had gained a better understanding of the do g soldiers' barking language. 'Most interesting.' He came a step closer to the woman and put a hand on her should er. He backed her easily into the tent and sat her do wn on the ground beside the pallet. The woman only stared past the tall soldier into the night, as if unaware of where she was. The soldier lifted the woman's chin. She shivered at the unnatural cold of his skin, but moved her head as she was bid. This man was more gentle than the other soldiers in the camp, but the woman did n't not ice. He leaned closer to her and touched her neck with the tip of his dry tongue. The woman could feel her pulse where the man touched her. She was calm. Her daughter was safe. v v

The soldier mumbled so me thing like a blessing, and the woman's neck burned. She closed her eyes. Maybe the man was an angel sent to take her from this place to be with her family again. v v

Someone shakes the woman roughly from behind, and she opens her eyes. She turns to see a familiar man looking at her with anxiety. White clouds huff from his mouth as his breath freezes in the chill air. 'I've been trying to find you for hours,' the man says. He runs his hand unconsciously through his long black hair and nervously tucks it into the collar of his stylish overcoat. His cheeks flush red from exertion and the cold, and he looks over his should er continuously. 'What are you do ing In this part of town?'

'She is safe,' the woman answers dreamily. ''I had to protect her from the soldiers. they would have come for her in the morning.'

The man stares at her in confusion, his eyebrows drawn do wn into one black line. He shakes her should ers roughly and says, 'English. Speak English.'

The woman blinks and tries to concentrate. Her friend hates it when she slips into her native tongue. She glances over her should er at the heap sprawled in the tenement do or way. ''I was making sure-'

The man, her friend Alex, the one who takes care of her as she sleeps, looks past her at the body. His brown eyes widen and his jaw goes slack. 'Who is this child?'

'My daughter,' the woman says, smiling with remembered pride. 'She is so beautiful and pure. She is safe now.'

Alex only gulps audibly and shakes his head. 'We have to leave before someone finds us. Or her.'

'It do esn't matter,' the woman says, focusing on Alex for the first time. 'She is safe. That is all I care about.'

'Come on,' Alex says, pulling the woman for ward into astumbling walk. 'We may have to leave the city for good this time. Drake is tired of cleaning up after your messes. Did I tell you he ordered me to put you to Fin al Death if you did so me thing like this again?'

'If it is what you want, Alex,' the woman says, still looking back at the body. 'I haven't seen Dmitri for a while. It would be nice to talk to him again.'

Sighing, Alex pulls the woman deeper into the city, toward the nearest subway entrance. He could no more kill her than he could kill himself. He would sooner face the wrath of all the city's elders than live with the shame of causing the woman any harm. Hopefully Drake will be able to cover this up, he thinks. He has do ne so before in worse situations. I do ubt he'll even miss the two of us. The woman shambles of f after Alex dreamily. Alex will take care of her. He always has. And she has taken care of him. She would never let anything happen to him. No matter what dangers may come, she will make sure he stays safe with her. e

## MAYDAY! ## AN OBLIVION STORYIN THREEPARTS by Lindsay Woodcock what goodwouldamagazinedevoted to Mind's Eye the atrebewithoutanodhere or the re toactuallot?torytellingis, afteallwhatthesegamesareallabout, and ou can'ttellagood, evocative, nteresting storywithoutawinninglot.o, tothatend, and inanattempt tohelpyoukeepyourlive-actionchroniclescurrentwith Worldof Darkness continuity, wepresenta three-partstorythatwillhavedirecttiestomajoreventsinthe Worldof Darknessin1999. History, whetherinthereal worldorintheworld of yourgame, sooften happenswithout anyonenoticingapeopleand characters are sobusy dealingwith the minutia of day-to-day crises that they don't realize they'rerightin the middle of somethingofepic, sweepingproportions.Occasionally, though, something momentoushappensthatthosesamepeoplewalkaway, wide-eyedandspeechless, with no do ubt that they have justbeenpart of history in all itsgrandeur.Ina live actiongame, this effect is priceless.you knowyou'veput togethera trulyamazing game when yourplayers and Narrators end the session stunned at the scope and drama of the evening'sevents. Mayday!all owsyour Obliviontroupe toparticipateinsuchamomentous event.Noruiningthesurpriseyetit'sinthree parts, soyouhavetowaituntil the end toseewhathappensaebutyour Circlewill participateinthebiggestthingto happen in Wraith history since Charon's fateful battlewith Gorool. First, though, some technical not es.No ready-made story could possibly accountforplayercreativity, Narratorpreferenceorevenpurechance.the reare justtoomanyvariables atworkin alive-actioncontexttomakeforasinglestory that will workfor everyone.Flexibility is essential.With that in mind, each installment is broken into individual scenes.The scene descriptions are the n divided into two sections:Hard Info and Choices. Hard Infopresents facts, events and details that must somehow occur or be revealed for the chronicleto run asplanned.How you work this pertinent informationintothe story is largelyup toyou, as Storyteller, but itneeds tobe included.Feel free to use existing social structures, Narrator characters or your favorite plot devices.The how is not important, as long as the what comes across. Choicesisjustwhatit seems.Weanticipate someof the things a Circle might do in the situations posed by Hard Info.Story flexibility is encouragedin the se sections, asboth Narrator and charactersdeveloptheplot.Aslongastheskeleton of the storythe Hardlnfoisintact, do n'worryaboutforcingitsfleshintoany particular shape. While the adventure is designed for a small-tomedium-sized Circleof wraiths, itcaneasily accommodatealargertroupe.Narratorcharacters, Spectres and all mannerofothercharactersshowup, and all of the mneedplayerstomake the experiencemeet itspotential.Again, feelfreetouseexistingcharactersoutside im ae of the central Circle; having familiar elements introduce or elaborate on new plot threads increases the drama and believability of the game. Plus, employing existing characters to drive this plot of fers direct motivation for the players' characters to get involved, and it makes the players feel like active participants in the development of events. Still, we include profiles for significant participants at the end of each installment in case you need to fill any holes. A final not e: The three parts of Mayday! mix and match with your existing game. You could wait until all three parts are released, the n play the m all together as a series, or you could play each part as it comes out in the Journal, separating episodes with events from your own chronicle. Players, everythingpast this point IS Storyteller material. If you don't want to spoil the surprise or clue yourself in before you actually play the game, read no further. ## PART ONE: AMBASSADOR

S U ~ C ~ E S T I O N S

Running this installment of Mayday! in your live-action chronicle requires only one Storyteller character who do es not already exist in your game: Tadashi Nakagawa. Other useful characters forthis plot include an 'acquaintance' -be he a diplomatic envoy to the Jade Kingdom or simply the first Necropolis guard to spot Nakagawawho introduces Nakagawa to the Circle; a secretive Heretic, should the Circle be able to locate the wraith from the 'list' they find in the course of action; various members of of ficious Hierarchy bureaucracy; and even a Renegade or two. Props forthis installment of Mayday! include representations of the box Tadashi Nakagawa carries, as well as of the items in the box. ## SCENE ONE

## HARD I N E O
- The Circle is introduced to (or comes across, if there are no existing all ies or acquaintances to make introductions) Tadashi Nakagawa, a Jade wraith who claims to be on an ambassadorial trip to the higher-ups of the Necropolis. Nakagawa appears young, and is unfailinglypolite. Hecarriesarelic boxabout the sizeofadepartment-store gift box. He do es not open the box and do es not give any information about its contents. - After approximately 10 minutes of play (or if the characters become inexcusably rude), Nakagawa bows and walks away, leaving the characters alone. - The acquaintance (should there be one) leaves with Nakagawa. ## CHOICES
- The Circle might be polite and friendly; any courtesy or good will the wraiths show Nakagawa is reciprocated. - Dependingon the individual characters, they might of fer to take Nakagawa to the Hierarchy. Nakagawa declines such help. - If the Circle is belligerent or antagonistic, the Jade wraith simply makes graceful excuses and leaves quickly. No matter how rude the Circle wraiths become, their attempts to bully or intimidate Nakagawa are unproductive. ## SCENE Two

## HARD I N E O
- Shortly after leaving the Circle, the Jade wraith drops into a Harrowing as one of his Fetters is destroyed suddenly (by an unknown attacker, as revealed in part three of this chronicle). The box do es not go with him into the Harrowing. - The box comes into the possession of the Circle, either delivered or found. It contains a relic wakizasht (Japanese short sword) with a for eign sigil carved into the hilt, a page of jotted not es and a list of names and locations. - The not es read: 'Find optimal points; solidify all iances; look for the unblinking.'
- The list of names and locations refers to local Heretics and their Haunts. Most of the Heretics on the list are both high-Status and high-secrecy. therevelation that the names on the list are those of Heretics should come as so me thing of a surprise to the wraiths, especially if the names are those of covert Heretics who already exist in your game. - If a character takes the waktzasht out of the box and keeps it on his person for more than 10 minutes of game time, he begins to accumulate Temporary Angst due to a strong taint on the weapon. This effect should not be immediately obvious to the character, since the taint is subtle and seductive. The character is eventually subject to Catharsis. ## CHOICES
- The characters may choose to not open the box, taking it directly to the authorities instead. - The Circle might wait until Nakagawa comes back from his Harrowing and makes his way back to the Necropolis, and the n try to interrogate him. This is somewhat problematic, since Nakagawa's Fetters are far away, and who knows what kind of red tape he'll run into when he appears back in the Jade Empire? - they open the box. If any of the characters have Heretic status, they may make Static Mental Challenges to see if they recognize any of the names. A few names might be known to characters with high Hierarchy status. Again, Not all of the names should be those of recognized Heretics. how ever, the names are all those of Heretics. - If the Circle decides to investigate the names itself, trying to find out what's going on, the Heretics should be difficult to find. Should the Circle find any of the m, the Heretics attempt to take the box and might well try to send the characters into Oblivion for 'knowing too much.'
- Should the group decide to head to the Hierarchy for help, it's in for a rough time. Unless one or more of the wraiths has at least two, if not three, Hierarchy Status Traits, the entire group is given the run-around until members explicitly refer to the Heretics by name or show someone the list. The Hierarchy is extremely suspicious: The functionary who sees the Circle takes the box and interrogates the characters intensely. If the characters play their cards right, the Hierarchy lets them go z but not with out setting a nigh-constant watch on the m. Clumsy or belligerent roleplaying gets the wraiths in serious trouble: a fight, perhaps, or attempts to imprison, enslave or even soulforge the m. The trouble should be escapable, though, to keep the story moving. - If the characters hold onto the box and tell no one about it, parties from both the Heretics and the Hierarchy come looking for it -news of relics, especially interesting or powerful ones, travels fast -and interrupt anything the Circle might attempt. The Hierarchy wants the box from a purely materialistic stand point; it do esn't know exactly what's in it yet. The Heretics want the potentially damning list of names destroyed and all wimesses elimin ated. - The Circle could go to therenegades for protection. This course of action occurs at the Storyteller's discretion, but therenegades may be the characters' best hope for physical protection and all ies. This installment of the story should effectively end with the Circle's decision about what to do with the information and theresulting brouhaha. the se events can take all evening to play, given good roleplaying and strong characters. So ends Part I of Mayday! Look for Part 11: Deployment in the next i s s u e of the Journal. The following is a 'skin and bones' cheat-sheet of suggested Traits and a back ground sketch for Tadashi Nakagawa. ## THE AMBASSADOR

## THE SKIN

Tadashi Nakagawa either meets or is introduced to the Circle early In this installment of Mayday!, and his involvement in the wraiths' afterlives has an effect onatlof Stygia. but who is he? At theriskofgivingaway toomuch too early, Nakagawa is a Jade wraith on a unique and dangerous mission. He has been entrusted with a specific responsibility, and he do es not stop or be deterred by normal means. In life, Nakagawa was little more than what we in the 20th century would call a 'number-cruncher' or a 'bean-counter,' but he always took his work seriously (perhaps even a bit too seriously). In death, he is a pawn of a higher power, but his mission is of the utmost importance to him. not hing sways him from his course; not even the Harrowing he undergoes when one of his Fetters is destroyed. ## THE BONES

## p E R s o NAL INFO RMATI o N

Name: Tadashi Nakagawa

Life: Minor Functionary

Death: Heart Disease

Nature: Bureaucrat

Demeanor: Architect

Regret: Never expressed love to his wife and son

## STATISTICS

Mentatltam, Cunng did isld Paintanlh

Social Traits: Charming, Dignified, Diplomatic, Persuasive, Persuasive

Physical Traits: Athletic, Dextrous, Nimble, Resilient, Wiry

Abilitie: ureauracy, nigmas, Etquette, aw, Martial Arttalth, utfu

## ARCANOI

Intimation (all innates): The Gleaming, Deep Desiring, The Craving

Moliate (all innates): Sculpt, Martialry

Outrage (all innates): Wraithgrasp

Usury (all innates): Transfer, Charitable Trust, Exchange Rate

## PASSIONS

Protect the Empire (Duty) Advise Wife and Extended Family (Love) Keep Records of Court History (Duty) Gain Power (Greed)

## EETTFRS

[not e: One Fetter, the teacup, is destroyed during the course of the game.] Brush with which he wrote at work

Ancestor shrine in his home

Teacup given by his great-grandfather

## BACKC~ROUNDS

Jade Court Status 2 Living Family 1 Wraith Family 2

NAKAC~AWA'S p '0 ( S H A D O W)

The Perfectionist

## DARK PASSIONS

Destroy Family (Hate)

Undermine Empire (Spite)

## THORNS

Spectre Prestige Shadow Trait: Brutal

## ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD QUFSTIONS

The constant evolution of Mind's Eye the atre bnngs new and differentquestions to the game. this month, we tacklequestions and comments about Laws of Elysium and the elder game, as well as a couple of general Trait questions. Send your Mind's Eye the atre questions to: White Wolf

Attn: Mi n d ' s Eye the ati-eloumal, Frequently Asked Quesaons 735 Park North Blvd. carlawhite-wolf. com

Q In JAWS of Elysium, Master-Level Disciplinesare available to eighth or lower generation characters. In the tabletop game, vampires get the really powerful Disciplines only i f they're seventh generation or lower. What gives? A: Some troupes may wish to experiment with the new Master-Level Disciplines with out adding elder powerhouses to the game -for the m, eighth- (or even ninth-) generation Kindred are good can did ates for the se powers. how ever, if a large game hosts A few true elders (seventh or lower generation), it's generally a good idea to keep the Master Disciplines in the hands of those puissant characters. the se powers are supposed to be rare and for bidding, after all! The key is to make sure that the Disciplines are available if you want to use the m, with out making them commonly available to everyone. Q. The Thaumaturgy Path of Conjuring says that the vampire can't summon anything larger or heavier than himself, including a LAW rocket, but LAW rockets aren't that big. Also, the Permanency power says that Conjured items must be returned physically to their place of or igin, when those items are really just created from not hing. A: The not e about LAW rockets is pertinent to game balance. A conjurer can generate a stake, a sword or a vial of blood, but some things should be too difficult to make (like high explosives or nuclear weapons). A good rule of thumb is to require the conjurer to have enough Abilities to actually build the item in question. Thus, the thaumaturge can't conjure a pistol with out A few levels of Repair and Firearms; he needs a lot of Demolitions and Science to make explosives. of course, simple items (like wooden stakes, metal bars and rocks) can be conjured with out any special Abilities. Permanently conjured items are fully real and solid. The confusion here comes from the fact that mortal Conjuring (see Laws of the Hunt) simply moves objects with out creating things. An object moved with mortal Conjuring must be taken back to its place of or igin if the conjurer intends to return it. Conversely, an object created with the Thaumaturgy Path of Conjuring has no 'place of or igin' since it was created from not hing. ## Q: How come the new Discipline level for Chimerstry looks suspiciously like one of the old ones in Laws of the Night? A: Because the minor difference is in motion. Illusions created with Fata Morgana (second Basic Chimerstry) can not move; they are who lly static, though they can affect all of the senses. Illusions made with higher levels of chimerstry can appear to move and interact with their surroundings. ## Q: How come modem gargoyles can't fly while Dark Ages ones can? A: Did we leave that line out? Silly us. Modem gargoyles do have wings, and they can fly. The gargoyle's flight speed depends on his level of the Visceratika Discipline; each level of the Discipline all ows the gargoyle to fly 5 mph. ## Q: Can an Assamite with high levels of Occult Influence use that capacity to leam other sects' rituals to get Thaumaturgy rituals using his Quietus Discipline? A: What a strange and convoluted path. No, Quietus is not sufficient to learn rituals aside from the special Assamite ones. Thaumaturgy do es Not all ow someone to leam Assamite rituals with out Quietus, forthat matter. ## Q: Are Bladed Hands (from the ritual of the same name) visible? A: No. When you invoke Bladed Hands, you become capable of cutting through things with your hands, but your limbs do not appear to change at all. don't pick your nose. ## Q: So what's thereal skinny on Spirit Thaumaturgy? According to some sources, it works on wraiths. According to others, it's Umbral spirits. Which one is it? A: Spirit Thaumaturgy is designed to contact and control Umbral spirits. of course, only tainted spirits would ever deal will ingly with a vampire. for the sake of expanding possibilities, Storytellers may all ow Spirit Thaumaturgy to function against wraiths, but in general that's the purview of the Necromancy Discipline. ## Q: How come there's no Master-Level Thaumaturgy in Laws of Elysium? A: Well, technically, there is no Master Leve1 in the discipline of Thaumaturgy. 'What, the n-' you may ask, '-is the meaning of the article on page 41?' In that article, we use the term Master-Level more as a representative stroke than as a technical term. A master thaumaturge (like a pontifex, for instance) is more likely to have branched out into several different Thaumaturgical paths (or even created his own) rather than perfected one to a higher level. how ever, there are some rituals that are available to only the most trusted, the most wise and the most respected scholars of the clan, and those scholars can be considered thaumaturges of the Master Level. ## Q: OK, so if there are Lasombra antitribu, how come there are no Tzimisce untitribu in Laws of Elysium, just Old Clan Tzimisce? A: Because there's maybe so me thing like one Tzimisce in the Camarilla. Tzimisce antitribu are about as common as Salubri, and as such their differences from the main clan can't be covered by generalities -they are unique and extremely bizarre individuals. ## Q: Why did n't the Ogham Discipline from The Long Night get an extra level in Laws of Elysium? A: Because Ogham is already a dying Discipline in 1198, and its powers are limited. If you are absolutely fired up to have an additional level (perhaps for balance purposes), try this: ## I N S C R I B E T H E C U R S E ( S E C O N D I N T E R M E D I A T E )

The Lhiannan traces runic glyphs of a foe's true name on her body, thus gaining power over that enemy. You must know your foe's true name, and you must expend two Blood Traits to trace the unusual runes. The runes must be visible to the enemy in order to function, and you must make a Mental Challenge when you first engage your opponent. The effects of the runes last until the runes are removed or until you suffer two health levels of damage (thus obscuring the m). You may choose one of four effects for the runes: affecting the body renders the victim impotent and unable to use Blood Traits; the mind causes the foe to suffer from the Negative Traits: Oblivious x2; the voice makes the target mute; and affecting the soul makes the opponent lose all ties in tests against frenzy. You may use only one rune at a time, so you can choose only one effect and impose it against one person. (not e: This power causes Ogham to have more Intermediate levels than Basic levels. Such is the curse of trying to learn a dying Discipline -it's hard!)

## Q: What are the Attribute Trait maximums for changelings and wraiths in The Shining Host and Oblivion? A: In both cases, a character's effective age comes into play. Obviously, most wraiths and changelings won't beat up on elder vampires, so the ir Traits are not always as high... but an old and experienced character always has other tricks. For changelings, the character's seeming determines Trait maximums. Childlings are limited to 10 Traits in each category except Physical, for which they can have no more than six Traits. Wilders can have up to 12 Traits in each category, and grumps may have up to 14 Traits in each category. A childling redcap won't bite any vampires in half, but watch out for elder trolls. Wraiths are products of self-image. A wraith's personal characteristics are a reflection of the individual's internalized self-perceptions. As a result, old wraiths of ten surpass the limits of the ir meat-bodies, taking the mselves to new levels of ability. Enfants (newly dead wraiths) are limited to 10 (just dead) or 11 (dead for a few years) Traits in each category. Lemures (fairly old wraiths, maybe a few decades in age) can have up to 12 or 13 Traits, while Gaunts (centuries-old wraiths) can have 14 or sometimes even more Traits. Players are unlikely to play wraiths older than you ng Lemures, though. A fair compromise is to all ow a wraith character to start with a limit of 10 Traits, but to improve to 11 and 12 after six months and one year of play, respectively. ## —THE MASOUERADEPLAY THIS CLASSIC INCLUDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO ENTER THE WORLD OF THE KINDRED. ## -LAWS OF THE NIGHTCONCENTRATE ON TH THE QUICK AND EASY POCKET-REFERENCE TO MIND'S EYE the ATRE.IT all OWS YOU TO

## -LAWSOF ELYSIUMTHIS RESOURCE IS THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO CREATING,MAINTAINING AND RUNNINGA VAMPIRE ELDER.ITALSO CONTAINS EXTENDED DISCIPLINES for the LONG NIGHT. - -LIBER DES GOULES:THE BOOK OF GHOULSSURETHREREPLENTYOFTHINGSTOOWHENYOUEDEAD,UTHEREOUFINDWHAT YOU CAN DO WHEN YOU'RE NOT QUITE DEAD. - —LAWS OF THE HUNTMORTALSARETHEPLAYTHINGSAND PUPPETS of the WORLD of DARKNESS-UNTIL they DECIDE TO FIGHT BACK.TAKE BACK THE NIGHT WITH LAWS OF THE HUNT. ## -THE LONG NIGHTTHE LONG NIGHT TAKESYOU INTO THE DARK MEDIEVAL WORLD OF THE I2TH CENTURY AND MAKESYOURKINDRED CHARACTER THE UNDISPUTEDMASTER of THE NIGHT. ## —LAWS OF THE WILDCOMPLETELYREVISEDINA HANDYPOCKET-SIZEDEDITION, this BOOKBRINGSTHERULES of were WOLF:the APOCALYPSETO THE LIVE-ACTION STAGE. ## -OBLIVIONHORROR of WRAITH:THE OBLIVIONANDTRANSLATES ITINTO the MIND'SEYETHEATRE SETTING. ## —THE SHINING HOSTENCHAN 1 MEN I AND Atih-OLD MYSTERY -THE WOR N G nfE DREAMING. F GLAMOUR -

## VG I.. RIE j

ND REVEIATIO i THAT TELL of I USED AS A AC

W E AND hN(

\_I\_

\_I

## EVENT HORIZON: UPCOMING LARP EVENTS

OKAY, KIDS, SMALL CONFESSION TO MAKE: this EVENT REPORT isn't THE FRUIT OF MY OWN RESEARCH, or EVENA BUNCHOFSTUFFITOOKTHE TIMETO GATHERMYSELF. TOBE HONEST, ILIFTED EVERYTHING. TO PREVENT FURTHER PILFERING OF THIS NATURE (AND TO GIVE ME YET MORE REAL YOUR CONVENTIONS, GAMES AND UPCOMING EVENTS. JUST REMEMBER THIS public at i on IS QUARTERLY, SO THE next issue is GOING TOCOVER JUNE THROUGHAUGUST. SUBMITACCORDINGLY. than KS, KIDS. ## VAMpIRE EVENTS

## NORTHWESTERNUS

Dark Necropolis; Kitsap WA Every Saturday hatchet@cutter. sincom. com (360)874-9195

Tacoma; Tacoma, WA Second, third, fourth&amp; fifth Sunday of each month sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728

Of No Concerm; Eugene, OR First Saturday of each month Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu the atre of Roses; Portland, OR Every Saturday Kewi-Cee Chu, kc@csua. berkely. edu

## SOUTHWESTERN US do mainof Mountain Shadows;Provo,UT Every Tuesday Nikki Mc Coriston, N.Burton@m.cc.utah.edu (801)363-3959

Moonlight Masquerade; Marysville, CA Every Saturday (8pm) Jennifer young, kaidin@syix. com

Seattle; Seattle, WA Second and third Sunday of each month seattledomain@usa. net

Outlands; South King County, WA Second Sunday of each month tsigane@wizards. com

Nox ad Infinitum; Fairbanks, AK Every Saturday fsdck@aurora. alaska. edu

Ivory Masque; Anchorage, AK Every Monday glitter\_boy@hotmail. com

Labyrinth of Crying Shadows (Sabbat Game); Sacramento, CA Every Friday Adam Abramson, vallombrosa@hotmail. com

## NORTHCENTRALUS do minion of Solitude;Topeka,KS Second Saturday of each month Jeffery P. Harrington, harri999@geocities.com

## SOUTHCENTRALUS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR First and third Saturday of eachmonth Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870)931-0959

Fourth Tower Falling; Dallas, TX First Saturday of each month David do ub, Brujah@gte. net (972)788-1895

Legio Noctem; Dallas, TX Third Saturday of every month Billy Lucas, will iamlucas@juno. com (972)788-1895

## THE GREAT LAKES

Shadowgate Society; St. Louis, MO Third Saturday of each month Jamie Schneider, jackon@juno. com (314)837-3640

NORTHEAST US Boston, MA First and third Saturday of each month Sean do nnelly (617)656-2891

## SOUTHEAST US

House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL first and third Saturday of everymonth Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

Athens by Night; Athens, GA Alternating Saturdaysbeginning March 13th Storyteller List abn-st@math. gatech. edu

Blood Moon; Charleston, SC Fourth Saturday of every month lan Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

Ground Zero, Colorado Springs, CO Every other Thursday Neil Parry, cyricp@aol. com (719)687-2946

Kentucky Fried; Dallas, TX Fourth Saturday of each month Lance Gillson, nooneofconsequence@usa. net (972)788-1895

Eighth Legion; Dallas, TX Fifth Saturday of each month James Potter, kingsnight@hotmail. com (972)788-1895

Bryan/College Station; B/CS, TX Second and fourth Saturdayevery month Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamuedu

Charlestonus Ab Noctum; Charleston, SC First two Fridays of every month Ian Betts, alistergarle@hotmail. com

Eclipsed Moon; Charleston, SC Third Friday of every month Ian Betts, alistergarle@hotmail. com

## GAROU

## NORTHWEST US

Tacoma; Tacoma, WA First, thirdandfifth Saturdayofeachmonth sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728

Seattle; Seattle, WA Secondand fourth Satrudayofeverymonth seattledomain@usa. net

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Secondand fourth Saturdayofeverymonth Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu

## NOHTHCENTHALUS

Knights of Rage; Colorado Springs, CO Every other Thursday Travis Page, all mity Bob@aol. com (719)447-0399

## SOUTHCENTRAL US

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR First and third Saturday of every month Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870)931-0959

Fourth Tower Falling: Dallas, TX First Saturday of each month Matt Ragan, matt \_ragan@hotmail. com (972)788-1895

## SOUTHEAST US

House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL Secondandfourth Saturdayofeachmonth Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

Olde Guard; Anchorage, AK Every Sunday Tom Alexander, nightstalker@customcpu. com

Bryan/College Station; B/CS, TX Secondand fourth Saturday of each month Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamu. edu

Onyx Illumin atus; Charleston, SC First and third Sunday of each month Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

## OTHERS UNSPECIFIEDAND MIXED GAMES

Nox Imperium; Longview, WA Every Monday of each month katzmeow@kalama. com

Trails End Troupe; Salem, OR Second and fourth Sarurday of every month

Coordin atrix@hotmaill. com

Outlands; South King County, WA Fourth Saturday of each month tsigane@wizards. com