## Mind's the atre Eye S JOURNAL

BECAUSETHEMINDSEYENEVERBLINKS

## Min Tind s Eye Iheatre JOURNAL

BECAUSE THE MIND'S EYE NEVER BLINKS

## WELCOME TO THE MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL, the MAGAZINETHATPICKSUPWHEREOTHER MIND'SEYEPUBLICATIONSLEAVE of F. THIS is SUE PRESENTS: - TIPSONCREATINGMEMORABLEANTAGONISTS
- ADVICEONMANAGINGLARGEORLONGRUNNING LARPCHRONICLES
- ALOOKBACKANDA LOOKAHEAD
- WORLD of DARKNESSFICTION
- TOPICALISSUESONLIVE-ACTIONROLEPLAYING AND MORE the JOURNALPROVIDES EVERYTHINGYOUNEEDTO MAKEYOURMIND'SEYE the ATRE CHRONICLES MOREDIVERSE, COMPLEX and COMPLETE! WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE? i

GURESIDI

Mind's Eye

CREDITS Authors: Developer: Editor: Ed Spymoun Art Director: I

Steve Balfour, Carl Bowen, Richard E. Dansky, Cynthia Summers, David Tancredi, Peter Woodworth

Carl Bowen

Aaron Voss

Photographer: Laura Robles

Front and Back Cover Design: Pauline Benney

Layout and Typesetting: Pauline Benney

## WHAT YOU'VE MISSED

## is sue #5
- The first part of MET'S look at Wraith: The Great War. - A look at the Bunyip for Laws of the Wyld West. - The einherjar of the Dark Ages. ## is sue #6
- The second part of MET'S look at Wraith: The Great War
- were wolves in the Dark Ages
- Yulan-Jin and Dhampyrs

## is sue #7
- A guide to acting in live-action play
- Dharmas heretical to all self-respecting Kuei-jin
- A look at the hideous fomori
- Motivation to torch me in effigy

735 PARK SUITE 128 tLARKSTOW, GA 30 0 2 1 USA

C A M [ S T U D I O

0 2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re 'lVD' served. Reproduction with out the written permission of the pubkher is scprrssly for bidden, except of reviews, and for blank charact e r sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only White Wolf, Vampk, V a m p i ~ the Masquerade, V a m w the Dark Ages, M a g the Asenfor the sion, World of Darkness and Ahrant are r e g i s t e r e d trademarks of White W o l f Pub lishing, I n c All rights m e d. W~olfthe Apocalypse, Wraiththe Oblivio Qlange ling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, were wolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, wraith the Great War, T r i n i t y Mind's Eye the atre Journal. is sue 8 and Changing B&amp; Book 1, Vampire Storytellem Guide and Masquerade are trade marksof White Wolf Publis~g, Inc. all nghtsreserved. Au~~em,~es, places and text herein are copyrighted by White W o l f Publishing, Inc. The mention of or reference to any company or product in the se pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and the mes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised. For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-451-WOLF. Check out White Wolf online at

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES http: / /www. whitewolf. com; alt. games. whitewolf and rec. games. frp. storyteller

## TABLE O P CONTENTS

| WE co I IIE. by you rs Truly |
| THE CURRENT THINKINC~ |
| So LONC~, EAREWELL, BYE-BYE by Cynthia Summers |
| DEADC~UY SPEAKS by Richard E. Dansky |
| L A R ~ ~E A M E S A N D LONC~ CHRONICLES by Steve Balfour |
|? How do ES I T EEEL. by Peter Woodworth |
| the RE are MONSTERS €VERYWHERE by Peter Woodworth |
| CREATINC~ ANTAC~ONISTS THAT MATTER by David Tancredi |
| €VENT HORIZON |
| WHAT I have LEARNED by you rs Truly |

## WELCOME! ## f O R THOSEOE YOU JUST TUNING I N... Hello again, everybody, and welcome to the eighth is sue of the Mind's Eye the atre Journal! For those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second to acquaint you with just what you've got here. The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the g a p i n y o u r White Wo IfLARPenvironmen~ Weofferdesfornewcharactertypes, or igmlstorylinestowork into you r chronicles, guides for keeping you r games under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won't find i n any other Mind's Eye release. Plus, you'll find an s w m tothequestionsthathaveplaguedyou, or igmal Worldof Darknessfictionandcolumnsf people who've been W i n g o r workmg here at White Wolf (or both) for years. At least, that's been the pattern thus far. Now, how ever, I'm sad to say that this very is sue is the last one that will be available for the for eseeable future. As w e ramp up and fine-tune our fronthe Mind's Eye the atre releases, the Journal has simply become less and less necessary. Every resource that goes into making the Journal what itis is are sourcethatcouldjustaseasilygointoa Lawsof... booktomakeit that much better. That being the case, it ftankly just do esn't make much sense to continue to divideourresourcesaswehavebeen.Althoughmanyofuswillbesadtoseethe Journal go, the Mind's Eye the atre line will emerge stronger for the change. Its books will get bigger, its rules will get sharper, and it will become more inclusive in the long r u n. But let's for get about that for a moment and take a look at what's actually in this is sue. the re's no sense drawing the curtain before the end of the first page.... In this is sue of the Journal, w e take a look into the future of M E T. Richard Dansky gives advice on what to do when you r game has ru n its course. Cynthia Summers talks about the future of the game line she develops so tirelessly and about the genre itself. Steve Balfour, the president of the Camarilla fan club, for eshadows a future M E T release with an article on some of the concern surrounding chronicles that are larger than the average chronicle. Newcomer David Tancredi also makes a good showing with an article on creating convincing antagonists, and Peter Woodworth gives tips on personalizing the supernatural World of Darkness experience. And, asalways, you'llfindalittle Worldofhrknessfictionandanevent listing that's as accurate as it can be, considering the circumstances. And even though the Journal is going away, you can still contribute to the future of MET. Send letters on you r opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send questions about the features and rules you've seen here, as well as not es about the broken rules you come across in different M E T publications. Send horror stories about games gone wrong and how you r players' characters fixed the m. Check out the for um section of our web site and post you r observations the re. We're always interested in the opinions and desires of our readers, so don't stop letting us know what you want to see. After all, where would we be with out you? Carl Bowen carlawhite-wolf.com White Wolf Publishing, Inc. 735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 USA

## THF CURRFNT THINKINCj

When something you've worked on for a long time h a s to go away for reasons that are beyond you r control, it's tempting to point fingers and lay blame. When I heard that the Journal was being can celled, I felt that temptation. Instead of going onapetulant useless rampage, though, I decided t o l o o k back at h o w the Journal had been received thus far throughout its run. I paged through old emails and posts I h a d saved from our old online for um -you know, the one that worked -and I found the se collected comments. The Journal I think is a great idea, though I have to say I've been a bit disappointed in the way it's turned out. Some of the information in the Journals is very useful, while some of it I can't help but feel is just filler. Some of the things would be useful, but the re just isn't enough information. For example, a useful bit that came out of the Journals were the listings of what levels of Lore provided what information (and what misconceptions!). On the other hand, we don't need a section detailing Asian wraiths. The section on Bastet would have been useful if it had included information on more tribes, or a more complete listing of the Pumonca powers even. I would like to see something giving definitive information on Ghouls. Liber des Goulesisawasteofpaper and the newer booksare both incomplete and alsocontradictory at points. Translations of more were wolf material to MET would also be very useful. Overall, the Journal is a great idea that has had mediocre follow-through. It would be a terrific for um to have of ficial FAQs published and release MET information that do esn'tfit into the standardbooks. It needs lessfictionandfldandmore solidmaterial. -Tanuki (tanuki st@hotmail. com)

I must say that, over all, the entire concept and run of the Mind's Eye the atre Journal has been a good one. the re have only beena few small problems that I have personally had with the Journals. Well, one really. One very big problem that continually pisses me of f everytime I see that copy of the Journal. It's about the Lores... Now, many of you out the re might be happy that White Wolffinally came out and do wnright said what each level of each of the most predominant Lores do es. But let me tell you something about those levels. they suck. If I spend more than fourteen seconds in an actual LARP game with one of those creature types, chances are I will be able to learn more about said creature type than someone with a Kindred Lore of 40. How do I know it's 14 seconds? I timed it. In short, the system screws anyone who wants to come into agame knowing more than a first-night Embrace/Changed/Dead/Faerie-stuffed/what ever because spending three minutes with characters of that type will give you more info than any level of the 'Lores' will. Maybe the Lores should be called 'Lies and Useless Info.' It's much more accurate, and I could stop putting quotes around it because that name would be far more fitting. Yeah... -Unagodd (frederick@csus. edu)

I'm very fond of the concept of a magazine as support for a game. Games Workshop do es the same, TSR do es (did?? i don't fallow them anymore) the same. when is sue 1 and 2 came out, i was very enthousiastic, but i'm somewhat dissapointed by the amount of useful1 info i find in the m. half of the time, the re is not a single item of use in them to me. the things i'm after is metaplot and rules( clarification). a magazine gives the possibility to influence the WOD, a bit like the updates on the WOD in books like TOTB &amp; NOP. a magazine is a perfect tool to bring the changes on a regular timed base. example: is sue 10 talks about the changes in California, is sue 11 about the takeover by the cama from ny, is sue 12 about... you get the picture. also, things like (much more) FAQ's are something that i would like to see in the magazine. I suppose all in all the se are good publications, but they don't of fer what i'm looking for. -Xavier Muylaert (Muvlaert@mail. com)

For me, I enjoy the MET Journal. The additional rules for minor bloodlines and updates to the METgameworld (like Hunters, recent events in Wraith matters, etc.) are a welcome bonus. Articles detailing history and/or exposing metaplot information are wonderful as well, because not all LARPers follow the tabletop game. Much to White Wolfs chagrin, I suspect! I would like to see more FAQ's, of ficial updates and perhaps optional rules. The MET Journal is the perfect place to publish Oblivion updates to 3rd Edition Vampire MET core rules, additional character types, and even direction on costuming or helpful Storytelling guidelines. Granted, some rules will probably need to be saved for a future book, but hints and tips -like the recent Mage article -go far to help fill in those gaps until the of ficial versions are printed. What I do not like to see published in the pages of the MET Journal are 'ultra kewl powerz' that only serve to have players BEG for the m, at least those powers that are not tempered in some fashion. I am also not a fan of fiction with in the pages. I know, I know, just because it's not my cup of tea I shouldn't be too harsh to judge. But, the beauty of toleplaying is that WE get to create the stories. I don't want to read about you r ideas, I want to make my own. 'But James, some people aren't that creative and they need some ideas!' Absolutely, but the re is plenty of the me, flavor and fiction with in the rulebooks to get us started, generally found at the begmning of a rulebook and of ten between the chapters. While the World of Darkness isn't about rules and systems but about Storytelling, this is not the World of Darkness Journal. This is a journal dedicated to one specific set of rules and one specific line of rulebooks. If I want fiction set in the World of Darkness, I'll go pick up any number of paperbacks published by The Wolf. I don't buy rulebooks or supplemental material for the gripping fiction. I don't believe many people do. If you must, use the fiction to illustrate an MET scene. don't simply provide a gripping tale that only exists to entertain. Let the Storytellers do that for their players. That's why we buy the rulebooks. Additionally, the MET Journal could be the best place to publish errata that goes beyond mere FAQ level. of ficial, authorized, 'we screwed up, here's what? ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Page XX should have said' errata. No one likes admitting mistakes but we all make the m: customer, author and publisher alike. Unfortunately for the authors and publishers, the customer is traditionally right. Make us happy and give us the clarifications and updates we seek in a timely fashion. -James A. Hussiere (drjamez@maine. rr. com)

I like the MET Journal for a number of reasons, some of which I'll describe below. how ever, I must clarify a point before I list my pros/cons. I am a mature role-player who prefers the richness of the World of Darkness setting and the Mind's Eye the ater rule system. I do not consider myself a 'Mindless Fanboy'. I do not purchase a periodical 'just because it's cool!' I do not purchase every single White Wolf product that comes along, 'A Vampire cigerette lighter?No than ks, I don't smoke.' I do not preach about my characters, past and present, to unsuspecting game developers. I do consider myself an 'MET Evangelist' and I try to set a good example of our hobby. I do purchase a product when its content is good and the MET Journal gives me the content that I want by providing MET setting and rules clarifications that enrich my chronicle. what do IlikeabuttheMETJournal?Herearemytopthree Desert is landanswers. 1. The MET Journal has a sense of humor. Unlike other trade publications that shall go nameless, the MET Journal is grounded enough to poke fun at the mselves and the product they create. When was the last time a certain company of upper-west coast of magic-users actually warned their players about the risks of overindulgence in their product. Bye Rich, 1' 1 1 miss the wit! 2. The MET Journal is not a sales engine, but is an advertisement free publication focused on the Mind's Eye rule system. I don't have to wade through articles, ads or reviews of other systems that I'm not interested in. I like my content to be direct and I get that with the Journal. 3. The MET Journal is inexpensive. Heck, I've paid more for graphic novels or user guides that have been far less informative or enjoyable. What would I like to see improved in the MET Journal? 1. I would like to see the MET Journal published on a more timely basis, perhaps every two months, instead of quarterly. Given the large volume of new material being published by White Wolf, we -the MET Storytellers, Players and retailers -need a more reliable schedule for purchasing and stocking you r fine periodical. 2. I would like to see the most current MET rules clarifications (especially the increasing cross-over questions) addressed and published in a timely fashion. Instead of having to wait and the n buy a new MET Rules book to see the current FAQ, I would like to find it, indexed and accurate, in the MET Journal. It would save me and my players from having to search through the various MET rules books to find the approprate data, and time saved means more time to play! 3. I would like to see more articles focused on improving our Live Action hobby. While you already have a number of articles for matted for the Journal, I would like to see a few more columns on such topics as, chronicle creation, storytelling techniques and pitfalls, legal aspects such as waivers and insurance, and how to handle the press with out digging you r own roasting pit. Xybertec (Cybertec@cyberdude. com) the biggest problems is eeinthe Journalarethefiction. Ithasbeen said that the fictioninthebookisthebasisof White Wolfethestorylineandflavorof the game. with all of the books out the re, be the ynovelsor sourcebooks, the reis plentyoffictionforthebackdropof the game, and toaddflavor. Mosteoplelook to the MET Journal asa guide to the questions that are overlooked inthe other METsoucebooksthingsthattheFAQsjustdoncoversatisfactorily. That, and rulesforcharactersoutofthenorm, likethenihilistsandotherbloodlines/kiths/ tribes/etc. are the selling points of this publication. The tips on"newbie's first nightcostuming, and location acquisitionare alsoverygoodsectionstohavein the books, alongwiththehumorovergamertypes. the onlythingthatitismissing atthispointisasubscriptionoption, which anydiehardWWgamerwouldutilize. ——Jeff Szappan(radallyn@hotmail. com)

Ienjoy the fiction a great deal. Keep it. the infoon more esoteric/rare splats(clans/tribes/bloodlines/kiths/guilds/ traditions/crafts/what evers)is GREAT, and oneofthemainreasons Ipickupthemag. The sense of humor is necessary, and utterly appropriate. IalsoREALLY like the letterscolumns, and the game listingsaregreat as well. Although Iwish the magazine includedmorewebsite listingsforgames, Ialsounderstandthatmanygamesdonhaveasitesothatmayotbexable on you r end of things in either case, More FAQ's, though. Definitely. That's all I can come up with right now.. Chimp Pimpout. —Monkey Love(the Chimp Pimp@monkeyman. com)

Myfavoriteissue, byfar, was#3. believethatwasthenethatwas0%roleay, 10%kewpower. Whilekewlpowerzareinterestingtoseelpersonally, do ntfeelhat mycharacterisanyless completebecause Idon'thavethatbrandspankingnewritual. Iwouldliketoseemorearticlesonhowtobringthe'personal'backintothe storytelling system. How to efficiently identify aspects of a character that will mosteffectively develop theirownpersonal tieto the chronicle. with a game averaging8Oplayers Ifindmyselfdelvingintometa-plotmoreoftenthanI would like and sometimes have torefocusonindividual-specificevents. I'msureother chronicleshave the sameproblem. how about an article on differentmanagement techniques?how do games divide up the storytellingresponsibilities and what have the ylearned as good/ bad techniques?Wehaveourownway of do ing thingsbutI bet someoneelse heremay have figuredout a betterway tohandlegame duties and viceversa. —D. Scott Stewart(storyteller@eotr. or g)

OK. Things in the jourmal that I like: - 1.)All the conversionsforstuff that fallsbetween the cracks is great. Even the Wraith/Wyld Weststuffisprettygood. - 2.)the"how todeal with problemplayers"articleswere excellent. Let'ssee more detailed troubleshootingstuffin the future. ## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL
- 3.)Iknowa lotofyouhavehadaproblemwiththisone, but the Lores article was agodsend... Now Inolongerhavetodealwiththosewhothink that a loreofone let'sthemknoweverything. Asfarasthe spendingXPissue, lookatit this way: You maybetoldall the thingsbutunlessyousitdownandcommit the mtomemory, its goingtogoright in oneear and out the other. SpendingXPreflects that. - 4.)The humor articleshave been great. - 5.) Carl is very will ing to listen to the readership.. the re aren't many at WWwho are will ingtoriskpostinghere.=)
- 6.)The games listingisawonderfulidea. not every game has a net presence, and the listing is a invaluableresource. Things that I don't like or needwork: - 1.)I'dliketoseelessof the historicalconversions. Tobehonest, I've always feltthat, whiletheyworkgreatinTT, inLARPtheybecomeproblematic. This being due toissuesoflocation, proper costuming, playersnot familiarwith history, etc. Hereincleveland, ehave multplelarpsrunning, only onf which is Dark Ages. I'venevereven heardofanyof the others beingrun. I'mnot sayingeliminatethembut the biggest are aof LARPhas alwaysbeenVAmpire, and the focus should stay the re. - 2.), Ahgeez, Pete, msrry, ut... hefctionjusteemskindautflae. the reslentyofitintheotherbooks, and the ounal, I think, is the lacefor what everfallsshortofneedingawholebook. how ever, the reisonethingthat would make it interesting... Start havingreaders (or staff) submit fiction based oneventsthat actuallyhappenedingame, takingaparticularsceneand turning it into writtenfiction. - 3.)the gameslistingisgreat, but the re should beatouchmoredetailand some of the games are listed under the wrong are as. ThingsI'd liketo seein the Journal: - 1.)Please, PLEASEdo an articleon Ghouls in Revised LOTN. Liber is kindaworthlessnow, and itsgoingtosucktodoaconversion, and the nfindout the of ficial rules have come out. MaybeWWis planning a rev. Liber, but give us somethingtoworkwith. - 2.)Articles oncharacter creation-Not so much telling ppl the"right"way tomakeupacharacter, but suggestionsformakinga fully for med character, as opposed to a collection of stats. - 3.)Eventhought I do n'tuseitinmygame, Iwould liketoseemore detail givenontheWWmetaplot. the rehavebeen acouplecases inthejournalwhere anevent has beenreferred to(suchas the fallof the True Black Hand), but not explained at all. this would come inreally handy for thosewho are really into LARP, but do n'treallyplayTT. Maybeeven a timelineof some sort, with pertinent eventslisted? - 4.)I'd also like to see articles submitted from STs about any"experiments" they mayhaverun in their games and how the yworked. For example, STshave alwaysbeenencouraged tomakeuptheirownsettingsforgames. I'dliketosee how successful (or not) other STs have been with"going outside the lines."

Overall, the journalhasbeenagreathelptoLARP, and Idliketocommend Carl and all those who have worked on the Journal for do ing a great job. - —Avatar\_X(AvatarX@nospam. angelfire. com)

## SO LON%, EARFWFLL, BY€-BY€ by Cynthia Summers, Mind's Eye the atre developer

Well, for starters, Mind's Eye the atre isn't going anywhere, although the Journal is falling by the wayside. don't all jump for joy at once.... Mind's Eye the atre still has places to go, things to do and people to meet. The upcoming Changing Breeds Book 1 and Vampire Storytellers Guide will continue to blaze new trails for LARPers of all stripes. Looking to the future, I definitely want the game line's focus to be on telling stories and giving folks the best tools with which to do so. Typically, last is sues are considered a place to air prophecies, predictions and similar vaporware. Based on what I've been seeing in the course of my job, I'll venture to put on my for esight cap and play at prophet. I think the live-action genre is in for some interesting times ahead. This hobby has been around for at least a decade, i f not a little longer. The LARPing world of today is not the same as it was when Masquerade first came out. Some of the conventions of modern LARPing will change, and all of them will have to face up to the times. Exactly how audiences' tastes will change as days go by is up to social scientists (and our marketing department) to figure out, but you can be sure that MET books will adapt to fit the m. The folks who've been engaging in live-action roleplaying for several years now, like myself, are admittedly getting a bit long in the tooth. The folks who saw Masquerade come into being are getting married, having kids and experiencing various other grown-up rites of passage. But now that we're do ing all this growing up, will we need to give up 'playing pretend'? Will new games give rise to 'e1ders'mourningfor the good old days and wondering what's the matter with kids today, while the 'kids' wonder when those 'fogies0 are going to retire to the old LARPers' home? Those OG's (or iginal garners) who have continued to press on of ten have more collective roleplaying experience under their belts than their new (and you nger) Storytellers do. This potential conflict could go several ways. It could result in clashes of age where those who reach a certain age find the mselves increasingly unwelcome or where a you th must spend time in entry-level positions (both in and out of character) for a long time. On the other hand, old chronicles might enjoy a resurgence in popularity and vitality as fresh new players infuse the scene with their enthusiasm. A coterie of experienced power-players might rise to prominence in an aging game and alienate the you ng, inexperienced players who would otherwise keep the game alive. Conversely, a group of old hands who are the Storyteller's most mature and competent players might take mentor roles and help integrate bright-eyed you ng LARPers into the game in such a way that the game goes on and continues to strive. Prediction: they're not quite the Geritolset, but olderplayers are becomingafact of life. We're only beginning to see the impact they'll have on the hobby, and it will b e an important factor in its future. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Those coming in fresh to the games are entering with less knowledge of the material under their belts. they're less likely to have encountered the World of Darkness in a tabletop for mat than to have been recruited via a friend's recommendation, word of mouth or just happening upon a Laws of... book in a local store. This concern has already been addressed tentatively with the changes to the books that give new Mind's Eye readers a glimpse of the setting. New rulebooks now start with ambient fiction and setting material that puts the rules material in some kind of context. The newer generations of gamers are also coming in with wildly different background materials. We came to the games with impressions of The Crow and Interview with a Vampire, and we wanted to play what we saw. Our you nger siblings, how ever, are more familiar with Buffy and The Matrix. This difference isn't necessarily destructive to the hobby, but it will become a factor as groups try to create stories that pander to both sets of creative expectation. Prediction: Stormy waters lie ahead for those who are plotting the courses of chronicles. Storytelkrs will have to find a happy medium between brooding anti-hero stones and post-industrial epic taks of success against seemingly insurmountable odds. Speaking of you th, what about those kids that the older players now have. Are we looking at the real next generation of LARPers? Is LARPing going to be one more activity to juggle in between Little League games and ballet lessons? While much of the new gamers coming into the hobby are in their late teens and early 20s (as many of us were when we started), a growing group of you ngbloods is made up of elementary-school age kids who want to know what Mom and Dad are do ing when they head out for the night dressed up in laced shirts or green velvet. Certainly the enthusiasm surrounding the Harry Potter books suggests that a wealth of you ngsters are thirsty for fantasy and they just need the opportunity to take the next step. Simply ignoring this group or rebuffing its interest may be one of the more ill-considered moves the LARP community could make. Prediction: Groups may need to reconsider their approach to you ng peopk beyond a blanket policy of non-admission. And that's all that my psychic powers can endure for now. Now we sit back and see what the future brings. Closing out also means that you give out than ks to everyone who spent time working on the thing. So -than ks to Carl for putting this puppy together from a few harebrained ideas and turning out a silk purse from the sow's ear. than ks to the remarkable crop of writers who gave us so much to play with and think about, taking roleplaying beyond a few sheets of paper and playing 'let's pretend' do wn in the basement. And of course, than ks to you, the loyal readers, who've followed us thus far. We wouldn't be here at all with out you. Take care, have fun, and we'll see you around Elysium. ## DFADGUY SPFAKS

## CHANC~ES, € N D I N C ~ S, B F C ~ I N N I N ~ S AND OTHER 'INC~S THAT SEEM PROEOUND by Richard Dansky

Let me give one final round of praise to Richard for everything he's do ne oyer the years. Although he's no longer with us -the company, that is, not the livinghis presence has had a resounding influence on this game line and this hobby. In fact, I wouldn't even have a job here if it wasn't for Richard. When you see this man, shake his hand, than k him for all the hard work, and kt him know that the contributions he's made will not b e for gotten. Years and years ago, back when vinyl was the best form of music you could get (as opposed to a statement about you r retro chic muso cred like it is now), the Alan Parsons Project recorded a song called 'Where Do We Go From Here?' For those of you who don't know who the Alan Parsons Project was, they're the band best known for that thunderous instrumental that gets played before most sporting events the se days. For those of you who do know about APP and are currently sneering because let's face it, Vulture Culture was probably not one of the cooler albums ever recorded, relax. the re's always someone out the re who thinks you r taste in music sucks. And for those few of you who actually own Alan Parsons Project CDs -or even albums -well, we're getting old, guys. Still, it could be worse: I could be leading of f the column by discussing what LARP plot lines can be extracted from Emerson, Lake and Palmer's Tarkus album. Count you r blessings, folks. But, as usual, I digress. My point, or at least my moderately blunt conversational object, is that it's always time to think about what comes next. What do you do when you r game crashes and burns, or it gets taken over by no-talent munchkins? What happens if you r favorite game system (*cough* Wraith *cough*) gets can celed. In short, what do you do if the status quo of you r gaming universe, Deo prohibe, changes? Mind you, this not ion isn't one that the gaming industry-or the gaming audience -necessarily takes to heart with a who le lot of love. The phenomenon that I call 'gaming crystallization' that takes place an awful lot, and it hits players, writers and developers with equal frequency. In so many words, gaming crystallization is the not ion that when someone finds gaming for the first time, he seizes on the first good game he plays as the Platonic ideal of roleplaying. not hing else can ever measure up to that first sublime experience, and any changes to the game line are a betrayal of that one, shining, magical moment when the dice first hit the table. Unfortunately, everyone crystallizes at different times and with different systems. That's why you get edition wars on Use Net and mailing lists, for one thing. It's also why some folks get verrrrry nervous or dismissive about games and styles of play that are different from the ones they're used to. Not everyone crystallizes thus, certainly -not by a long shot -but it do es happen, and it's something to watch out for. After all, if you decide that Street Fighter is the ultimate RPG, the fact that they're not making Street Fighter any more probably puts a crimp in you r enjoyment of the hobby. You know what? That's just plain silly. What we're do ing is -and I'm only going to say this once -a hobby. It is intended for enjoyment. Every other aspect of it -from the educational, a la the bulk of the content in Charnel Houses of Europe, to the humorous internal swipes you'll find in Pentex -is secondary. It's a game. You're supposed to have fun with it. You're supposed to get together with people who se company you enjoy to do things you enjoy and, with any luck, acquire stories that will bore the living hell out of everyone you know upon their umpteenth recitation. That being said, you r primary responsibility to you rself is to all ow you rself to enjoy the gaming that you do. If you're clinging to something that's gone and not coming back -be it a since-replaced edition or a since-can celed product line -you're do ing you rself a disservice. Now, that's not to say that just because a company kills a game, it's time to stop playing that game. After all, I still haul out Y e Olde Wraithe Bookes on occasion, and I enjoy do ing so. I just don't look out at my players from across the Buried Secrets screen, sniff in best Etonian fashion and announce that no gaming experience henceforth can possibly compare. You love what you love, but you shouldn't all ow it to keep you from enjoying something new. So what do es that pithy bit of wisdom mean for you? And no, this do esn't mean that MET is going to be can celed. MET is going to grow and thrive for agood long time, and that's great. It's also going to change as things go along -hopefully the re won't be another Laws of the Night, but the re might be -and you'll have the choice of how you're going to take it. In my opinion, at least, the best thing you can do is recognize that change is coming and inevitable, and do you r level best to make sure that the change is for the better. So write cards and letters with feedback and critique. (And make them polite ones, damn it. not hing turns someone of f toyour feedback faster than saying, 'You screwed up, but I, in my infinite armchair wisdom, know how to fix everything.') Make sure you mention what you like in you r letters as well. Positive feedback helps immensely, believe it or not. But, to quote Monty Python, that's as may be: It's still a frog. Some of you folks are going to crystallize in you r gaming with MET as it stands, and the re's not hing wrong with that. If it works for you, it works. It's that simple. Nobody's saying that you always have to jump on the newest, hottest thing to come along just because it's new and it seems to be all the rage. Just because it's new and hot do esn't necessarily mean that it's any damn good, or that it's something you'll enjoy as much as what you're do ing now. I keep my old Villains and Vigilantes books easily accessible for a reason, and it's not just so I can haul out 'or ganized Crimes' for purposes of taunting my erstwhile manager, Ken Cliffe. It's because I have fun with the game, even despite the fact that the system is simplistic and the book's falling apart. Ten years from now, some of you are liable to be saying the same thing about you r shabby, do g-eared copies of Laws of the Night. And last time I checked, that's what this who le thing is about. (I'm also fully cognizant of the fact that some of you are going to be systematically burning every picture you can find of you rself in character costume and bemoaning the time you was ted on such a childish hobby, but such is life. Remember what happened to Susan at the end of the Chronicles of Narnia. Different folks take different roads, and they're perfectly happy with the m.)

But that's the big picture, or at least one panel of it. (One suspects that the really, really big picture looks a bit like Rodin's Gates of Hell, complete with three scary, I.\_-I -come more personal moments when aiki'g 'What now?' is entirely appropriate. Take, for example, the horrifying, soul-shattering moment when you suddenly realize that...... you're bored to freakin' death with you r game as it now stands. So, to borrow a line from Dennis Hopper, whadd aya do, whadd aya do? The easy step to take is the boldest: Quit. Write a snide or angry or regretful email -you r choice -to the Storyteller, the Narrators, you r fellow players and random passersby announcing you r departure and enumerating you r reasons for jumping ship. do ing so provides no small measure of catharsis, but it also pretty much eliminates the possibility of ever returning to the game. Phrases like 'bloated, flaccid storytelling style' and 'emotionally dishonest bouts of Rock-Paper-Scissors' may seem fun to write, but they do a wonderful job of ensuring that you're never going to be welcomed back. Of course, if you're feeling particularly spiteful, you can quit and try to start you r own game, with the express purpose of putting the old one out of business. This idea is bad on any number of levels, not the least of which are A.) it's a hell of a lot of work to do just to put a dull stick in someone's figurative eye, and B.) if you do succeed in killing the other game, all of the players you felt compelled to leave behind will the n seek to while away their evenings in you r chronicle because the re's nowhere else for them to go. Oops. A more sensible approach is to sit do wn and do pe out what exactly bothers you about the game as it's currently configured. Writing it out helps. If not hing else, do ing so for ces you to for malize and or ganize what you r thoughts on the matter actually are. Also, putting those thoughts in black and white (or green or red or what ever color ink you're using, although I recommend against crayon) is a great way to see if you've got legitimate concerns or if you're just being pissy. For instance, 'My character is getting slapped around,' isn't a legit concern. 'My character is getting stomped like the 1998 Minnesota Twins because the Storyteller gives his buddies all sorts of kewl powerz and ignores the rest of us,' is. Once you've got those concerns mapped out, you can look at them with a sufficiently jaundiced eye and decide what's called for next. Maybe quitting -or just taking some time of f -is the appropriate solution. The trick is remembering that it's a solution, not a grandiose gesture of defiance. In the grand scheme of things, quitting a LARP is not quite on the same level as, say, standing in front of a tank in Tiananmen Square. Maybe a little time of f is all you need to get you r batteries recharged, or maybe you're do ne with that game for good, but it's still just a game you're talking about. What that means is, if you're going to go, go. Do it. don't make speeches about how it pains you to leave, don't wait for you r adoring ghouls to beg you to come back and save the game, don't expect the world to end just because you're walking away. Just go, and move on. not hing is more annoying (including the brain surgeons who throw something that looks like an obscene hand gesture from a deranged gibbon during RP-S and claim that it's alternately a scrawny rock, curved scissors or really thin sheets of paper) than an ex-player who tries to imitate Banquo's ghost by sticking around for the feast. Who knows? Maybe once you're away for a bit, you'll decide that you want to come back. Maybe you'll want to start you r own game after all. And maybe you'll decide vou've iust had enoueh. and vou'11 close the book on that Darticular amect of you r life. Who knows?Not I. My psychicpowers do n'twork on days that end in"y."Just makeyourchoice and followthrough, what ever that choicemaybe. the n again, the re are times when the big shakeup isn't you r do ing. Games have been known, for any number of reasons, to fall do wn and go boom. Maybe the main Storyteller moves, quits or (Deoprohibe! -again with the Latin! It means'God for bid, in case you're wondering, but let's face it, Gladiator made this stuff cool again.) acquires another commitment that requires a sizable time investment. (Kids, for example. Kids are a big one.) Sometimes the game just winds do wn of its own accord, as the story line wraps up and not hing arises to take its place. Player attrition is another killer, especially if the game is one that relies on existing community to the extent that it rarely draws new blood. (In case you're wondering, that's a nice way of saying 'Someone kills of f all the newbies' characters until the players stop coming back.') And sometimes you just show up and the only people the re are the Storyteller's SO and the janitor, swapping war stories and comparing their favorite vintages of chardonnay. Hey, it happens. When it happens, though, you have to figure out what you're going to do next. The easiest approach is just to sit on you r thumbs and hope someone else decides to start another game up. The flaw with this approach, how ever, is twofold: One, you're at the mercy of someone else's gaming style and choice of material. Two, as one of my coworkers says, 'Hope is the beginning of unhappiness.'

Of course, if you feel disinclined to sit around and wait for someone else to bite the bullet, you can go the opposite route and start a game you rself. (the re's actually a third route, which can best be summed up as 'guilt/ manipulate/ sucker someone else into do ing it for you r pleasure,' but we don't condone that sort of thing here. Well, not of ten, and not when management is looking.) By do ing so, you're making sure that the game you want to play is getting run, and you're taking squarely on you r should ers the responsibility for continuing the gaming community in you r are a. (not e: If you actually do decide to run a game, you have my respect, sympathy and admiration. You also probably have a need to hit you rself on the for ehead with a large brick five or six times, just to prepare you rself for what's coming next. It pretty much accurately simulates the unpleasant aspect of running a LARP, but with less photocopying.) Just make sure that if you do decide to run a game, you're prepared for all of the hard work and the criticism that comes with it. If you value you r life, sanity and stomach lining, do not expect people to kowtow before you in swooning admiration because you saved the game. Instead, be prepared for endless kvetching about how the old game was better, how they could do it better and quite possibly how a one-legged bullfrog who moonlights as a banjo player at the local Dukes of Hazzurd-the med watering hole could do it better. how ever, I can also state with some confidence that a storytelling staff composed of Taliesin, Sam Clemens, Senchan Torpeist and some balding dude named Bill would get the identical reaction. It's when you don't get any griping that you have to worry. That means they don't care enough to bitch. In the end, it all boils do wn to this: It's going to change. All of it. you r gaming group, you r chronicle, even the very game you're playing. Get over it. It's going to happen. the re's no sense playing can ute and trying to hold back the waves, because it's just not going to work. (No, I can't tell you what clan can ute was, though I'm sure he's in a book somewhere. don't blame me; I stuck to minor British nobility and people who were dead already. It seemed safest.) The inevitable end result is that you'll end up all wet, with lots of people asking you who the heck can ute was. Ultimately, you have two responsibilities. The first is to you rself, and it's a responsibility to have fun. Otherwise, why bother playing the game? Trudging grimly along to session after session do esn't win you any metaphysical merit badges for

I persistence. the re's no great Pilgrim's Progress-style reward for enduring the most gatherings of a game you're not enjoying. So find a way to enjoy you r gaming, or find gaming that you enjoy. That's because the second responsibility is to be something other than a pain in the ass to everyone you're playing with. You've got no right to keep others from having fun, even if you in you r superior wisdom know that they're playing the game wrong or by inferior rules or what ever. (And of course I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to that guy you know who'd act that way. Yeah, you know the one I'm talking about. He's a jerk, isn't he? What a bastard.) If other folks are having fun, let the m. What exactly do you gain from deflating the tire of their happiness, other than more angry, sweaty company by the side of the road? Back of f and respect their enjoyment, even if you can't share it. If, how ever, you're only happy when other people are embedded in the same morass of misery where in you pass you r darkened existence, you need to find the local Oblivion game and volunteer as a Shadowguide. To every thing the re is a season, and all that. Make you rself useful. That's what it all comes do wn to, the n. Find a way to have fun with the game, regardless of its incarnation or rules set or setting or what ever, and don't step on anyone else's enjoyment. In the end -and Steve Wieck is going to kill me for daring to put this in print -you don't have to buy every new book that comes along. You just have to be will ing to have fun and to all ow for the possibility that a new title or a new edition or a new game (or even a new way of playing that game) might actually be enjoyable. Mind you, I certainly hope you don't give up on the old stuff. Those of us who worked on the old books will salute you for you r loyalty, and the n surreptitiously check the amazon. com sales rank of each of our titles when we think no one's looking. You just can't let you r love of the old stuff preclude you from the possibility of having fun with the new. Come to thinkof it, that'sactually apretty good way to approach life. Give it ashot. Start small, say, with LARPing. After all, this cockamamie hobby just might be good for something after all. PS: It's been fun, folks. than ks for reading along, and here's hoping you got a smile or two out of this column. Me, I generally got enough to go out for a really nice Chinese dinner about once a month, plus an audience. I'd call that a fair trade. Now go have fun, or else I start writing another one of the se, and God knows none of us wants that. ## LARCjF 9AMFS AND LONG CHRONICLFS J

## WHY they BRBAKAND How PLAYERS AND STORYTELLERS CAN EIX the M by Steve Balfour

Most of us are not into Mind's Eye the atre live-action roleplaying for oneshot games. We want a rich chronicle with a history and story that evolves and changes as our characters plot, scheme and act. A slightly smaller set of us are into large games in chronicles or at conventions. Have you ever been to a liveaction game with over 300 players dressed to the nines and roleplaying their hearts out? Oh, it's a unique experience! you r character is always at risk. The biggest-name characters are the re. A scene do ne right opens a do zen do or s, and a scene do ne poorly closes them all. It's astounding. Big games and long chronicles are not just different and desirable for the players, they're a real challenge for the Storytellers and or ganizers. Game sites must be found, plots must be interwoven, characters must be directed, teams of Storytellers need coordinating, and all of the rest of the stuff we all help with to get the se huge albatrosses to soar and swoop like eagles must be do ne. they are outrageous fun when everything goes well. they are mind-splitting headaches when they do not. So, do you want to play in or host a huge game? Have you ever wanted to storytell or play in a sprawling multi-city chronicle?How about just adding a few more ideas and possible solutions for that big game you already enjoy or run? Well, that's why I'm writing. Partially. I couldn't address all the things that make large games and chronicles fantastic successes, but I can cover some of the most important elements that will help you shine as a Storyteller or player -the rules and the dynamics of large games. And no, this article shouldn't prove unhelpfully esoteric; I've become a practical guy since I started coordinating larger LARPs in 1994. I've seen a lot after being a Storyteller at several of bigger conventions like Dragon*Con and being on the production and storytelling teams of many of the Camarilla's large games (White Wolf's fan club called the Camarilla, not the fictional vampire sect). As far as tips go, I've worked and roleplayed with some of the best in the World of Darkness LARP scene. Plus, I have a secret weapon that helps me make sense out of some of the odd problems we face in large LARPs and international chronicles: I have a few degrees in psychology. ## So, WHAT'S T H E BI cj DEAL.? Big games and long chronicles cause rules to break, plots to break, players to break and Storytellers to break. LARPs become large at about 150 players -the kind of games you find at the larger conventions and some of the season finales of the really big LARP groups. In the Camarilla, we run about a do zen

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL large games each year, ranging from 150 to 350 players and one really enormms game with close to 1000 players at the annual International Camarilla Convention (ICC). Some people find my lower boundary of 150 players too high, of course; a 70-person game is too large for some. what ever the case is for you, I'll stick to describing the game and plot logistics that I've learned in the school of hard knocks, because that's what's relevant to the majority of large games. You're probably not too interested about how to rent out an entire hotel for three nights like the ICC do es. I think of a long+running MET chronicle as one that's been running for at least a year and has some pretty good continuity-reinforcing mechanisms in place, such as email lists, a solid group of core players or some long-lived characters. Although long chronicles can take place in just one city, several groups -including the Camarilla (club not sect), One World by Night and Shared Universe -host multi-city chronicles. The Camarilla's chronicle, for instance, has about 250 cities on four continents playing in a 6000-person chronicle that started in 1992. The Camarilla runs weekly or biweekly events with 20 to 100 players and maintains numerous email lists to keep Storytellers coordinated and everybody roleplaying to the ir hearts' content. ## How Brg C ~ A M E S BREAKAND WHY

Big games and long chronicles cause rules to break, plots to break, players to break and Storytellers to break. Smaller games all ow for more personal interaction between Storytellers, players, plots and the rules. If you r MET chronicle consists of seven players and one Storyteller, you can run it very much like a table-top game with the Storyteller describing the reactions of the World of Darkness and helping everyone through challenges that they perform. The feel is personal, the plots can be grand and world-changing, and the mechanics of the rules can be governed by consensus. The Storyteller has a good idea of what each character is do ing, and he can work on character development, personal horror and intriguing plot twists from each character's past. As the game gets larger, more players end up in conflict with each other so that the chronicle shifts subtly away from the Storyteller describing the World of Darkness to the players defining the World of Darkness for each other. Even if the ratio of Storytellers to players is the same as it is in a smaller game, the larger game becomes less personalized to each character. Unlike a game with one Storyteller and seven players, a game with 10 Storytellers and 70 players means that no one Storyteller knows the general plans of each and every character and that lots of player actions and challenges take place outside of the Storytellers' view. Social dynamics also become a factor in the 70-person game, where as personal dynamics are more prominent in the seven-person game, so the psychological rules of play change for everyone involved. When a game branches out to multiple cities, a who le new level of complexity occurs. All of the sudden, the plots have to shrink in scope to accommodate the diverse views of the Storytellers in different cities. Yes, the plots have to shrink. In a seven-person game, for instance, the Storyteller can dictate that the characters burned Atlanta to the ground. Even in a 70-person game in one city, it's not that big of a deal (logistically) to have some monstrous for ce sink Vancouver or wipe out an entire supernatural character type. But, as soon as two different cities join the same Chronicle, the Storytellers and players have to deal with what each other city do es. The Storytellers and players can not write and perform plot lines with worldwide effects with out having all the Storytellers (and the majority of players) in all the cities agree and accept the m. For instance, the Brujah justicar can not both hold a conclave in one city and be diablerized in another at the same time. High King David can not disband the Parliament of Dreams in one city but charge the Parliament with a task in the other. the refore, the possible plots for multi-city chronicles must shrink in scope as the number of cities in a chronicle increases, and that shrinking changes players' opportunities and Storytellers' plot tools. Multi-city games also put more stress on the Storytellers and the rules, because it is much harder to coordinate information for two or more teams than it is for only one. What happens if a character destroys a police station in one city and the n plays in another nearby city the next night? How quickly do police respond in the World of Darkness? How is everyone with Police and Media Influence informed? do es that character's action impact the levels of Influence (or danger) in each city? Were the will power Traits that the character spent last night in the other city marked of f for play tonight? Many of the se questions are easy to answer in a onecity game, but they become problems when two or more cities are involved. When you add the elements of players with email or ICQ, you start to see how the Storytellers can be outpaced by the players in two or 250 cities. ## How RULES BREAK

Let's go back to large games for a while. The goal of the MET system is to help players have fun roleplaying and acting out stories. In larger games, some categories of rules begin to fray. The first category of rules that break in a large game is that which encourages lots of tests. As an example, an Elysium scene with 100 players in the same room descends into across-the-room testing hell when a single obfuscated Malkavian walks into the room among its securityparanoid court of ficials and supernaturally observant spectators. What happens when two or three such characters walk in at the same or different times? Another example relevant to all MET rules is mass combat. In a room of 70 players, mass combat requires a charismatic Storyteller and a few assistants to coordinate. The problem is compounded if only 35 of those 70 players in the room are actually in the combat while the other 35 are trying to roleplay other scenes occurring in the same place. Another category of rules that break in large games involves those rules that rely on Storyteller interpretation. Large-game Storytellers are not part of a hive mind. they will inevitably make different rulings about the way bonus Traits from supernatural powers work, the amount or type of information that supernatural detection gives or what effects some powers have. Aside from the complaints that can generate among players, this inconsistency causes incongruities in the story. Most of the se sorts of problems are not a concern in games with up to five Storytellers. Adding any more Storytellers, though, makes every little ambiguity a possible frustration for everyone that can lead to a break from roleplaying. The last category of rules that break in large games comprises rules that introduce complexity to the game or record keeping for the game. In a room of seven, it's not a big deal to mark a Trait of f a character sheet or even track temporary Trait totals. In a room of 70, the game changes. Large games have more action going on all the time. Players have to attend to and remember a lot more information, and the information is of ten less or ganized or predictable than information in a smaller game. The nuances of rules end up being annoyances in large games. The larger the game is, the greater its need becomes for fewer rules, simpler rules and rules that are easy to memorize. Also, it is much better to eliminate rules that require dragging out character sheets in large games. Stopping the action for one player can potentially affect the rest of the players in the room negatively. Multi-city chronicles face most of the large-game problems, but with a higher negative-impact potential. Two additional concerns that arise in those games impact rules for multi-city chronicles. First, the frequency of character death should be minimized for the sake of both player satisfaction and chronicle continuity. It is of ten to the advantage of a chronicle to power do wn of fensive supernatural abilities and Merits while giving a character's defensive capabilities more weight. Second, keeping records and managing rules for refreshing used Ability and Background Traits becomes difficult in multi-city games. Consistent, easy- to-remember rules about refresh rates can lighten the burden of record keeping and decrease the chance of player mistakes in multi-city chronicles. ## HOW PLOTS BREAK

The stresses on rules in large games can sometimes be smoothed over by a dynamic Storyteller attending to the story and circumstances at the time. how ever, stresses on plots in large games can ruin any chance of creating a chronicle or all owing for meaningful character development. A challenge for any game with many Storytellers lies in coordinating plot lines over space and time. Just the layout of the place where a large game is held can make communication between Storytellers easier or harder. Technology can help. So can regularly scheduled meetingsduring the course of play. (But beware, though, that Storytellers can not just walk away from certain situations because they have a meeting to attend.)

As games increase in size, players begin to define the World of Darkness for each other more than they rely on the Storytellers to define it for the m. This effect occurs partially because more players are introducing their characters' agenda into the game, adding a multitude of character-driven plots to the story. As the game increases in size, some players grow more independent of the Storytellers and the rest of the players, so their character's plots also begin to diverge from what can reasonably be expected. While this divergence makes larger games more interesting, it poses a significant challenge to Storytellers writing plots. On one hand, characterdriven plots can be the focus of a large game (with a little Storyteller facilitation and moderation). On the other hand, character-driven plots can evaporate rapidly as the characters achieve their goals and begin to look for something else to do. In smaller games, it is much easier to understand where the characters are going and provide the necessary elements in the plot to deepen the roleplaying experience. In larger games, not only is it harder to track and understand where the characters are going, but having more characters means opening the do or for many more character-driven plots. Add in the fact that each Storyteller has a slightly different style of working with character-driven plots and you can see why games with more and more Storytellers, such as multi-city chronicles, face many different challenges for moderating character-driven plots and writing their own plots. Plot lines have to be satisfying to the players, something that a Storyteller can build into a plot he writes, but that character-drivenplots do not necessarily include. how ever, each degree of uncertainty introduced by increasing the number of players or Storytellers makes writing plots more challenging. In a game governed principally by character-driven plots, Storytellers need a set of stock plot lines that can be implemented quickly when the character-driven plots dry up. A set of stock plots may sound less interesting or challenging to write than tailored plots, but such i s not the case. A set of stock plots must cover the range of players that may be attending agame. The plots must be interesting, satisfying and linked into the chronicle in an understandable way, rather than randomly throwing a treasure-laden Judas goat out for the characters to fight over. Shrewd storytelling teams in multi-city chronicles weave lots of plot line hooks into the chronicle so that they can put a plot into play at the most opportune time. In large LARPs, players do not always create their characters' agenda with a concern for entertaining the assembled group. Moderating character-driven plots can seem as difficult as negotiating trade rights between hostile countries. Players, you can help by keeping the group in mind as you decide what you r character will do each night. Storytellers, you have to balance the enjoyment that the group is drawing from all the combined plots in play and the desire for players to have their characters in the spotlight just enough to make their roleplaying experience. ## HOW PLAYERS BREAK

Small games are based on personal dynamics and regulated by friendship and understanding. Large games are less personal, and they begin to rely on larger-scale social dynamics. For instance, it is much harder for a character to be left out of a small game. The players or Storytellers involved can reintegrate any neglected characters quickly. In large games, players and Storytellers feel less accountable to each other and take less action to help each other. This effect is called the 'bystander effect' in social psychology, named after the fact that people will act like bystanders if they consider the mselves anonymous parts of a large group. Larger games present each player and Storyteller with a zillion things to attend to and do, more than enough to feel less accountable to the entire game than a group of seven would. Players and Storytellers have to be aware of the bystander effect and how it affects a LARP. It is also true that people feel that they need to do less individually as the group size grows. One reason is 'social loafing.'That is, the players feel less likely to be evaluated by others because they are in a larger group. Another reason is the 'free rider effect' in which people believe that someone else is likely to solve the problem first so they do not try the mselves. Both of the se behaviors increase the percentage of players who rely on Storytellers for providing plots in larger and larger games. This claim seems at odds with the fact that having more characters leads to more character-driven plots. What is really happening in a

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL larger game, though, is that one set of players becomes more independent and begins introducing character-driven plots while another set of players becomes more dependent on the Storytellers or other players for plots. The combination of the se effects makes it necessary to increase the ratio of Storytellers to players in large games with out structured plots. Because do ing so is of ten unfeasible, players can be educated to help other players if they are will ing. Furthermore, simplifying the rules, decreasing the number of challenges called for by the rules, decreasing the complexity of rule-to-rule interaction and making rules easy to memorize can decrease the need of players to rely on Storytellers. Another social dynamic that governs large games is the 'risky shift effect.' When excitement gets high, people in large groups tend to feel that the ir actions will meet with fewer consequences, so they attempt to do more outlandish stuff. In live-action roleplaying, this behavior results in more challenges per player in larger groups than smaller groups. The number of challenges increases exponentially as both the number of players and challenges per player goes up. Each of the challenges has the potential to require a Storyteller or require looking up rules or require many other breaks in roleplaying. the refore, it is better to decrease the potential number of challenges to improve game flow for larger groups. The risky shift effect also causes players to act in less predictable and more diverse ways with the ir characters in large games or on large email lists. It also means that some characters will hop on the fast-moving bandwagon just for the thrill. Storytellers and other players have to plan and compensate for the fact that larger groups give rise to more diverse and bolder reactions than they would encounter in small groups. ## How STORYTELLERS B EAK

The two problem are as for Storytellers lie in setting up the chronicle and running the game. That covers just about everything, right? Setting up a large game or a multi-city chronicle is a difficult task. In small LARPs, the players can select what they want with in the Storyteller's comfort zone. Because the players and Storytellers in a seven-person game are able to negotiate and define the entire world the mselves, character creation and setting are much different than a game with many cities. When 70 players are involved, the World of Darkness ratios play a role in character creation. The conventions of the genre start to unravel when the Lasombra untitribu outnumber the Brujah two-to-one. Similarly, any deviation from the actual place and time in which the players are involved has to be explained meticulously to large groups. Imagine the out-of play disaster that happens when the group patrolling the park accidentally comes into the same play are a as the group hunting in the for est, and it takes several rounds to figure out that the groups are not in the same place in character. Multi-city chronicles require an even higher level of attention to initial characters and setting, especially if the chronicle adds players as it goes. Rules for character type distribution, setting variations and using places that are not in any of the participating cities have to be worked out between all the Storytellers. It is terribly embarrassing when a new city joins a multi-city chronicle with a great background only to find out that the new city was a war zone in the existing chronicle. Large games also seem to suck Storytellers into the most protracted problems and challenges. As the number of players increases, the diversity of problems that are possible also increases. Instead of regulating story flow, the higher number of challenges and higher chance for mass combat in large games stakes a claim on the Storytellers' time. ## CAN You REALLY EIX ALL THIS STUEE? Yes. To be completely honest, and with apologies to Murphy, not everything that can go wrong will go wrong. Most of the problems for large games or multicity chronicles stem from two sets of core elements. The first set of problems can be addressed with a supplement to them E T rules. the se problems are the complexity of the rules, the escalating number of challenges in a large game, ambiguity in the rules and inconsistencies in the expectations of the participants. The second set of problems can be addressed with procedures and technology. the se problems include lack of information management, lack of support for Storytellers' auxiliary needs and lack of planning for plot contingencies. ## MORE RULES? No. Fewer. Before I get too much further along, I want to say that I'm not writing the actual supplement for you r specific game or chronicle. That's for you to do. I want to show you the are as in which you can eliminate or simplify rules while still using the MET system. The Camarilla club has a supplement that addresses its needsfor the global, 24/7, live-action and internet chronicle it runs between 250 cities on four continents. That supplement might not be too helpful if you are planning a 120-person one-shot convention LARP. The thing to keep in mind, whether you are thinking about the Camarilla supplement or you r own, is that new players will expect to recognize the rules you are using. In some cases, they'll ask you to justify why you are using those rules, and it's good to be able to answer. (Hint: Show them this article!)

So, here is the punch line on rules: Large games should use a few, simple, easy-to-memorize rules that minimize the number of challenges and minimize of fensive power. Need a few examples of where you can trim? Anything that can be do ne to eliminate the need for referring to a character sheet should be do ne. Players in complex costumes who are engaged in roleplay should not have to drag character sheets out of their pockets, let alone have to find a pencil to mark on those sheets. An ingenious character sheet design can make things that have to be marked of f like Blood, will power, Gnosis and Glamour Traits, not to mention health levels, easy to mark of f with out unfolding. Other things necessary for challenges should be easy to remember, such as using numbers instead of Trait names or relying on permanent Trait totals for challenge-resolution instead of temporary Trait totals. Game mechanics that interrupt roleplaying should be minimized. For example, the Camarilla uses White Wolfs table-top rules as a basis for Auspex versus Obfuscate challenges in its vampire LARPs; the higher level of Auspex pierces the lower level of Obfuscate automatically. This change minimizes the number of across-the-room challenges because players hold up the number of fingers for the level of Obfuscate or Auspex they're using, and everyone knows with minimal challenges who can see who m, or who can not be seen. This idea

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL can be appliedto otherMETsystemsthatpitinvisibilityagainstperceptionbased powers as well. Try to reduce the number of tests that the rules require. Streamline mass combat when the outcome looks clear. For instance, the 50-on-five mob scene can be resolved with everyone pointing once and holding up a sign once. The Storyteller the n narrates the results of the entire battle with out further challenges save death blows. Combat in the MET system is always slow, and it takes a charismatic ST to control the room and get things do ne efficiently any time 15+ characters are involved. Standardization helps in large games. the re are a few examplesof the way that MET rules can have multiple interpretations, so make rules calls so that all Storytellers will be consistent. Some of the problem points that the Camarilla has found are the way that Awareness was written, the way Rapidity was written and the way do minate was written. What is the Awareness retest? do es the multiple-action penalty still apply when a character uses Rapidity? do es the one retest mentioned in the do minate descriptionrefer only toone will powerretest, or one retestperiod? You'll find others as you r Storytellers make rulings in you r game. Also, rules that help set the expectations of the participants are good additions for large games. For instance, the character types, powers or Merits with the best game effects will be the most numerous in large games, despite what the World of Darkness calls for. If players make the ir own characters, simple and fair rules for regulating rarity are a must. In multi-city chronicles, minimizing of fensive power is generally a good thing. High of fense is great for one-shot convention games, but it's bad for a long-running chronicle in which players travel through terrae incognitae four times a year. Cities or regular travel circuits tend to develop a pulse that helps the ir character interaction along. of ten, the players have characters of about the same power level, they understand each others' habits, and they tolerate each others' flaws. Going outside that travel circuit places those characters at serious risk, so it is best to take steps to see that the beating the characters can get will not be a fatal one. Eliminate one-shot kills. Select the least damaging optional rules in the MET books. Think about the weapons you all ow in you r chronicle. don't compound aggravated damage. Reduce the effects of powers and Merits that give certain characters excessive advantages over others, both to discourage every character having the same set of Merits and to discourage the rise of unbeatable Narrator characters. For instance, the Herd Background for vampires is incredibly powerful in a chronicle that runs 24 hours, seven dam a week, and it should be toned do wn. Other things that can get difficult in multi-city chronicles are supernatural effects that work over a distance. Powers that all ow clairvoyance effects should be regulated because they can cause time freezes or delays in getting information that characters should have immediately. ## OTHER HELPFUL PROCEDURES

Large games and multi-city chronicles need good policies and procedures for managing information, supporting Storytellers and handling plot contingencies. Technology has provided many ways for Storytellers and players to distribute information quickly. In larger games, it is of ten a good idea for Storytellers to get help gathering information from the players. Players of harpies, Galliards, bards and many other character types can be encouraged to get a copy of their observations to the Storytellers. Storytellers can set up email lists for Influence information and expenditures, rules-call archiving, actions that affect the World of Darkness; what ever information might be necessary for you to communicate to many others. Web pages are great ways to keep all game participants up to speed. Everything from game times and places, character biographies to information about setting and rules, and even tips about how to get more involved in the game are helpful additions to large games and chronicles. Too much information can also be a problem. As the person who has been writing a quarterly summary of the North American chronicle for the vampire genre of the Camarilla (about 4000 players), I can tell you about information overload. Finding the appropriate level of information for you r Storytellers and players is very important. Some Storytellers will need more information about particular things like Influences, plot details or monumental actions taken by characters. Reporting to each other becomes a necessity for multi-city chronicles. Speaking of administration, auxiliary Storyteller support helps a great deal in larger games and chronicles. Having a person who helps settle disputes between players keeps all the Storytellers on the floor during the game. Other types of non-Storyteller assistance -finding sites, do ing web work, writing and communicating -can also help. ## BVERYTHIN~

## US IN^ PSYCHOLO~Y A N D C U N N I N ~ T O PLANEOR

Using psychology and cunning to plan for everything is perhaps the best key to a great game. In large games, plans must include character-driven plots, lulls in the story, players who rely on the Storytellers to inspire the m, risky character behavior and other players jumping on the bandwagon that others set in motion. A common saying in large games is that a player must also act partially as a Storyteller. Character-driven plots take on great for ce in a larger game or multicity chronicle. The Storytellers lose direct control over the majority of plot lines that enter the game. With respect to character-driven plots, Storytellers become plot moderators. they watch and police, using the World of Darkness and its long-standing characters to regulate the machinations of the characters. Storytellers can divert and redirect character plots by introducing higher-priority tasks like a visiting dignitary or serious attack. Altering the priority of a character-driven plot is useful if a player is not restraining her character well, but don't do it too of ten. Players become resentful, and they may even stop trying to put their characters' agenda into play if they get stonewalled too of ten. Try to listen to the discussion that you r players have before, after and long after the game. Are they getting what they want? Storytellers can use less overwhelming plots to regulate character plots. Putting a situation in play that competes for the plotting character's attention is a nice tactic, and you can also learn something about the goals of the character and motivations of the player. Characters who usually attend to the Storyteller plots over their own plots can help build momentum for other characters. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Characters who stick to their guns when a competing situation is introduced can be used to provide a second set of plots for players who are bored. All it takes is a little bit of material to move the character for ward when a lull occurs. B e shrewd, learn the habits of the key players in you r large game. You can also introduce competing plots with the intention of drawing of f some of the characters working for a lead character who is progressing too quickly. the se types of 'control-rod plots' are a great way to draw out stories based oncharacterdriven plots that are sometimes fulfilled quickly. If character-driven plots are moving the story along well, the Storyteller can sometimes introduce a minor side-plot to involve the few characters not already taking part in the action. Introduce the se 'sweeper plots' carefully, though, so that the characters with out anything to do take the lead. You can the n build that plot into something that will take over in the inevitable lull that character-driven plots are so susceptible to. Just make sure that the secondary plot takes over the largegroup action only when the character-driven plots are beginning to wane. Character-driven plots are delicate. they require a light touch and a strong commitment to helping a large number of players get the most enjoyment out of the scenes. Be cautious that you are spending the most time moderating the character-driven plots that incorporate lots of other players. It is easy to get caught up in the development of a personal plot for a character because of the rewarding roleplaying and progress that you get to see, but Storytellers at large games have to watch the who le game and foster the larger story. Players can also help keep a game interesting by developing character-driven plots. By taking the character's goals and translating them into action in the game, each player becomes a catalyst for story. As more characters get involved in the character-driven plots, the driving character will experience more roleplaying. Beware, though, that marching straight in with a new character and lots of 50player plots in you r character's mind will be a disappointing experience. Take the time to build some relationships between characters and form some ties that all ow for the larger plots. In some instances, it can take a year or more to integrate you r character's agenda into a chronicle in such a way that he can interact effectively with 50 other characters in one project. ## GETTING RID O E LULLS

Aside from using moderation techniques on character-driven plots to all eviate lulls in the story at a large game, Storytellers can raise the intensity of background plots. do ing so is similar to the idea behind bringing a sweeper plot into the limelight when character-driven plots slow do wn. Background plots can come from a host of little plots that the characters in the game have for gotten about. It is good to make sure that each Storyteller at a large game has one or two of those background plots in mind as well as a prop or character that can kick of f the plot. Using background plots in this way brings a sense of continuity to the game, and it results in a lot of players trying to remember what happened before to set the plot in motion. To set up background plots, have several Storytellers introduce plots in threes for the first few games in a chronicle. the n, strengthen the plots that the characters respond to and let the ignored plots fall to the wayside deliberately. Write do wn the for gotten plots. Look at the characters' Backgrounds, Flaws and

Negative Traits to find a way to integrate the for gotten plots. the n, wait for the opportunity to re-introduce each plot. Long-running Storyteller characters that are either mentors or foils (or even both) are also good tools for getting rid of lulls. It is best to get a distinctive costume, a real attention-grabber, for Storyteller characters such as this. Talk loudly or very softly, but speak distinctively when portraying the Storyteller character. Use the Storyteller character to generate continuity and remind the players of what has happened in the past. Set up relationships with many characters, and use those relationships to introduce plot after plot when the story needs it. ## I N V O LVI N cj EVERY o N E... is very hard. Sometimes, players are at the game to watch it like television or just to socialize with friends. Having an out-of-character room at larger events is a godsend. Character creation can take place the re, as can plenty of socializing. Players (and their characters) who are the re to watch the game can be entertained by keeping a high level of interesting roleplaying going on among you r resident hams. Make sure that you are initiating sweeper plots every once in a while to see i f the wallflowers will nibble, but if not, do what you can to keep the center stage lively. Players who are interested in involving others should take the initiative and approach the quiet ones. Sometimes the se players are new, and sometimes they are just playing quiet characters. Take one of you r character's goals and present it as a joint venture. Let the quiet ones get involved at what ever level is comfortable for both of you. Have you r character introduce them to you r associates. You can make a player's night by bringing the game to him for just a little while. Never for get that you have out-of-character mechanisms to help players stay involved. After the game is over, ask those who seemed to do little if they had fun. Ask them what they are looking for and if they need some help getting involved. Make out-of-character suggestions to some of you r movers and shakers that the re are a few who might like to get involved in some of the grander schemes. All in all, involving everyone is a significant challenge and takes the action of both Storytellers and players in large games. ## RISKY CHARACTER BEHAVIOR A N D T H F B A N D W A ~ O N EEEECT

The crowd of characters is getting worked up, and they reach that critical moment. The acting is grand, the tensions reach their crescendo, and combat beings! Now what? First, have an or ganization plan with afew other Storytellers to handle mass combats and big groups. Make sure that you have simple and fast procedures to name a lead Storyteller for the group, and get a few supporting Storytellers for the inevitable branching of f and group action. Know you r masscombat rules, and be prepared to set the tempo for any such group action. In short, be energetic, positive, fair and in control. When players make risky moves with their characters, evaluate what the story might gain from the character's actions and consequences. Sometimes, ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL capitalizing on the se types of actions is the best way to make a game more fun. The benefit rarely carries over longer than a single game, though. One of the more troubling aspects about players taking risky actions with their characters is that they will of ten look back at what they did and wonder why they did it. If things went well, they'll just shrug and move on, but if the situation went poorly, regret sets in. Talking to players who messed up in front of a group if you have the chance. Help them to see how the setting world and the other characters respond to that sort of thing. Usually, it just takes a positive perspective to help players see that, while their actions may seem like huge screw-ups, they're actually just giving birth to new stories. I call the phenomenon that arises from this perspective the 'soap opera effect.' not hing exciting would happen on a soap opera if the characters did n't get caught do ing all the bad stuff that they do. Similarly, the story in a LARP improves for a number of characters when their characters' machinations become the object of inquiry. People follow the muddiest political battles and the most outrageous court cases because it interests them and gives them something to talk about. Characters making large mistakes in front of huge groups can have this same, glorious effect. In fact, some players believe in the soap opera effect so much that they make in-character mistakes with their favorite characters deliberately. they use their characters to drop hints about bigger plots and the n backtrack with guilty obviousness at times. Some players advocate getting you r character into all sorts of sordid little plots that could provide a minor scandal at a large game. After you teach you rself to appreciate the story that you can create, it's kind of fun to stir up the mud on purpose. Oh, and you r character has to catch a few others at their dastardly deeds and expose those rascals. It's an obligation to the story, of course. The bandwagon effect is a bit harder to manage, and it really requires that you have contingency plans as Storytellers. Storytellers with a couple of plots in their pockets can use the departure of the bandwagon characters to turn a large game into a small game for the remaining players. It is the perfect opportunity to build a wonderful roleplaying session with just a few characters -which is a treat in any large game. ## WRAPPINC~ Up the re are so many more possibilities for what you can do with large games and multi-city chronicles as a player or Storyteller. Each large game or multi-city chronicle is a unique or ganism that's very different from a smaller game because of the changing roles of Storyteller and player, the scope of the plots that are possible and the social factors that start to manifest. Storytellers, remember the Golden Rule: Use the rules and suggestions that promote the story and fun in you r game. The MET system is wonderful in its flexibility and the all owances it makes for the story over the rules. I hope that some of the insight into large games has been valuable and will help you creating pleasing stories the next time you run or play in one. ## HOW do FS IT FFFL? by Peter Woodworth

When you play Mind's Eye the atre, you usually take on the role of a character who se daily life includes powers and states of being that are completely alien to normal human experience. Such a role demands a correspondingly creative mind and some in-depth roleplaying on the player's part. Obviously, meeting this demand isn't always easy, even for the best garners. Sometimes, players come instead to see their characters as little more than tragically hip humans with a range of special talents and a few really killer all ergies. In turn, this misconception robs some of the mystery and drama from a character's supernatural existence and generally turns the game from modem myth to more of a Gothic superhero comic. This article's goal is to help give players a gut-level sense of what it really feels like to walk as one of the Awakened. Read on for some points of reference on some of the more common powers and experiences for those looking to really step into their character's shoes. Remember, as always, that none of this information is set in stone. It is all material for handy reference intended to spark the right creative fires. If you want Garou shapeshifting to be painless or faerie enchantment to be purely delightful, by all means, go right ahead. It's you r game, after all. Bearing that in mind, it of ten helps to remember the se basic rules for playing a supernatural creature 'accurately': - Repeat after me: 'MycharacterisNOTjustahumanwithneatsuperpwers!'
- Supernatural powers are not accidental, and characters can't simply learn them from thin air. Even fae magic still operates according to rules, how ever bizarre or arcane those rules might be. Most powers take some concentration or ritual; many require the expenditure of vital energies. Most importantly, aU powers require some time to practice and master, even those that a character acquires instinctively. - If you r character is a vampire or a wraith, he was once human, but now he's dead. He may linger on in some new, shadowy existence, but underneath it all lies the fact that he cheated final judgment; that he simply should not be. - If you r character is a shapeshifter or a faerie, she was never human to begin with. She looked like one for a while, and she might think like one still, but like it or not, she was born of a different species. She can not escape what she truly is for ever. Now that that's out of the way, let's see what the night has in store.... ## VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE

AWAKEN IN^ APTERTHE EMBRACE

'they'll tell you it's like waking up. Uh-huh. Like being born is waking up, maybe. First you have to die, remember, and that hurts. Sure, it's blissful and sweet at first, but the n the last of you r blood goes, and you realize you've actually been climbing to the top of a cold, dark mountain, with not hing but blackness below. You slip, you fall, you feel numbness spreading as the blackness reaches out to suck you in. the n you splash do wn, liquid all around, and everything is on fire. You hit apool of gasoline two seconds ahead of a match. you r throat is scorched, you r limbs are burning, you r who le body is a block of ice thawing out in a crematorium, and believe me you feel every inch of it as the flames pass over you. It drives the best of us crazy with pain, let me tell you. Strangest thing, though: One of the first thoughts you have is I'm still cold. As much hot blood as you get the n or ever, you'll never quite get back what you had when you were alive.'

## -Ad, Brujah philosopher

## THE HUNGER

The Hunger is not the unpleasant ache of skipping lunch or dinner. A human going with out food or water or sex or sleep for several weeks, now the re's someone who is beginning to understand a glimmer of what the Hunger feels like. It is more than just a gnawing, consuming physical pain, though it is that too. Indeed, the Hunger is more aptly named because it is a drive that devours a vampire's thoughts, one by one, until only the idea of feeding -feeding NOW, with out shame or caution or conscience -remains. It is loud, it is impatient, it is savage, it is everything inhuman. What's more, it always, always wins in the end. ## E RENZY

The world shifts to black and white, with just a few brilliant points of color. Threats-color. Prey -color. Everything else simply fades into the scenery. Speech i s a n aimless, unintelligible mess, and other noises sound like they're distorted and far away. That is, unless they indicate a threat of some kind, in which case even the softest noise is as loud as a pistol fired next to the vampire's ear. To make matters worse, this black and white film changes speed constantly, with out warning, going fiompainfullyslowmotion t o a h t i c fluny of imagesat the edgeofcomprehension. ## PAIN with out living nerve endings, the pain of the undead isn't a biological response anymore, more like outrage embodied. It's a primal sense of fear and anger that something is actually threatening the vampire's immortality. A human feels agony as nerves sever and blood flows. By contrast, the vampire registers a knife's cut, but or dinary pain is replaced by a instinctive fear for his unlife combined with arising feeling of, 'How dare she hurt me!?' In game terms, both are suffering the same Trait penalties due to the distraction of their wounds, but the sensation vampires experience is quite different. ## DRINKING

Once he is able to overcome his revulsion and disgust at what he is do ing, a vampire experiences each mortal from who m he drinks as a unique 'vintage.' The you ng are energy embodied, and their blood flows sweet and bright, while the elderly are usually sluggish and heavy with an almost flat taste. Mortals who have just exercised (or run or fought) have an adrenaline tang to the m, while those sleeping have a low warmth instead, like a soothing cup of tea. Blood itself has a faint metallic aftertaste and slightly thick texture as it is consumed. The victim's emotions play a role in the experience as well. Fear comes through as a delicious sour twist, while pleasure has a round, comforting taste. Each mortal at each moment has a slightly different flavor, and each should be savored accordingly. ## SPENDI NG' BLOOD 66

'First the re's a kind of push inside, like trying a move an arm or a leg that's fallen asleep. It's not too much effort, but it's not a purely unconscious action, either. the n

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL the re's warmth in the arm or leg or where ver it was you will ed blood to go, but it's not a comforting heat. It's more like the warmth you get when you throw the last log onto the fire. Itmaykeepyoufora time, but you knowit'sgonejustthesame.you knowthat before long, the cold will drive you out to search for more. And our winter never ends.'
- -Favian, Elder Setite

## C H A N ~ I N ~ for MS

Certain wise Cainites can for ce their bodies to flow like blood, all owing them to assume different shapes. do ing so requires great discipline to avoid dispersing oneself, which explains why most such vampires know only one or two other shapes. First blood saturates the vampire's entire body, spreading a warm, almost lifelike tingle along the skin as it travels. Next the re's a sickening, almost helpless feeling of floating apart as the blood flows into its new shape. Finally, the blood recedes from the outer edges of the body, surrounding the vampire's entire new form with a chill hardness. ## THE MOMENTOE BEING STAKED

Some say that the heart only finally stops when the weight of years becomes too much for it to bear. Now t r y to imagine what the weight of immortality must feel like. Pierced through a heart unceasing, staked vampires feel first as i f the world has fallen upon the m, a dull, immense, unyielding pressure that smothers ever part of the body until the slightest movement becomes impossible. Sensation vanishes next, as if the normal world has suddenly fallen away around the m, dropping them do wn into an endless well of silence, where at last they sink into the cold waters of torpor. ## were WOLE: THE APOCALYPSE

## s HAPESHIETINg

Consider what happens in the most popular shift, from Homid to Crinos. you r bones warp, lengthen and fuse together again. you r muscles ripple under you r skin, swelling and straining. you r flesh stretches and splits apart as you r size shifts and you r claws slice their way free. Fur grows, and each hair jabs up through the skin like a needle. What's more, you r senses all hit overload at once. You're awash in smells you had n't caught, sounds you had n't heard, sights you couldn't see before. The pain of shapeshifting is short but sharp. It's a good pain that clears you r head and sharpens you r will. It puts all senses on alert and readies you for battle or the hunt. Most of the time, all of this happens in six seconds or less. Even though the damage do ne during the change heals up instantly, the experience is no less intense for it. And this happens every time. ## S ~ E N D I ~ g ' RAG E A N D C ~ N O S I S t t

One do esn't spend Rage so much as explode with it. It's anger in its purest molten form, vented outward in burning, barely controlled pulses of fury. It gives you power, but it also leaves a scorched, sour taste in its wake, like the aftertaste of a marathon or a supremely powerful adrenaline rush. By contrast, spending Gnosis is the same as those rare moments where it suddenly feels like the Earth is breathing with you; the perfect synthesis of you and the world around you. When a Gift powered by Gnosis takes effect, it seems only natural because for the briefest instant, you and the world truly are one. ## EOUR- L ~ c j c j ~ ~ MOBILITY

'Running on all you r legs isn't the same as crawling on hands and knees. For one thing, you r entire center of lalance is slung low and evenly distributed along you r body, all owing for quick, coordinated movements, and making it very hard to budge you if you're so inclined. Also, all you r limbs are equally important. Tool-users that they are, this arrangement takes most humans a while to get used to. Sights are limited a bit by you r lower vantage point, but the rich scents and tastes found near the ground more t h a n make up for it. And the re's not hing quite like feeling fresh earth on four paws.'

-Sasha Bloody-Trails, Silent Strider Ahroun

## R F ~ F N E R A T I N ~

Like shapeshifting, regeneration is essentially a natural rather than totally mystical process, although it works incredibly fast. how ever, the Garou must endure all the normal unpleasantness of healing, just in a much shorter amount of time than others do. Bones grind and knit back together, punctured lungs drain fluid, guardian cells attack infections and diseases, tom muscles sew up, and new skin spreads to cover missing patches. It's painful, but the pain fuels the Rage that helps the Garou heal. The pain is Gaia's way of ensuring that her guardians stay as healthy as possible. ## S TFP p I N c j SI DE WAYS

'At first you think, 'This is stupid, I'm just staring at my reflection,' but the n you feel this cold shiver do wn you r spine, you know? And the n things start to get really blurry, like you're looking up at everything from underwater. the re's a jarring shove -that's the Gauntlet -and the n the world around you ripples, like someone threw a rock in the pond you were staring up from. But instead of everything coming back together the way it was, it comes back looking like the Penumbra. But that's right too, 'cause it's just the other side of reality, and by the time you realize that, hey, you're the re.'

-Eric Ledge-Jumper, Glass Walker Ragabash

## ATTACK IN^ SOME THIN^ WITH you R TEETH

Teeth are the one attack both wolves and humans have in common, and while the human side likes claws for their reach and flexibility, the combined instincts in most Garou prefer to use fangs for the kill. Fangs are the most intimate and deadly of weapons, and when matters are personal, many Garou finish them with fangs. The smell of the target's hide, the tearing punch as the teeth break through, the bitter taste of blood in the jaws, the grinding push of a struggling enemy or the pulsing twitch of a dying one -fangs seldom leave any do ubts. ## CHANC~ELINC~: THE DREAMINC~

## BNCOUNTERIN~ SOMBTHIN~ BANAL

Even from a distance, truly Banal things seem to be surrounded by a reverse heat haze, where instead of being all wavy and squiggly, things seem flat, colors are nondescript, and outlines are painfully clear. None of it has any mystery or charm. As one gets closer, the mouth goes dry, the stomach bubbles with lowlevel nausea, and a dull headache sets in behind the eyes, making concentration hard and for cing the fae to struggle for any graceful movements or clever words. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Those who actually manage a creative act feel absurd and self-conscious, as if being watched by a bored and disapproving audience. ## SPEND I ~g ' LAM OUR ( 6

'Imagine how it thrills the heart to make a wish and see it come true. Glamour is a wild, radiant burst of energy coursing through mind and body. Sometimes, even the best of us start to wonder if we can control what we've called up, just because it's always so powerful. Even once the Glamour is spent, its fades into pleasant exhaustion, a sense of beauty wrested from not hing. Putting the final stroke on a painting, jotting do wn the last few not es to a song, finding the perfect closing for a story and relaxing after a wonderful lovemaking session are the only things that approach the sublime experience of Glamour's passing.'
- -Lady Casey, satyr photographer

## GAIN IN^ GLAMOUR

Like the blood vintages of the Cainites, Glamour's 'feel' largely depends on how a changeling gains it. Some fae gather the dark essence found in fnghts, chills and nightmares, and they come to crave the icy bum of such twisted Glamour as it suffuses their frames. At once for bidding and as enticing as adead lover's whisper, it flows over theirfleshinchillnightbreezes. Otherfaedrinkdeepofthe heady, into xicatingpassion to be found in physical e c s t a s y, musical abandon or other headlong flights of Glamour. they savorthesurgingtingleofprimal joy and happinessthataccompaniesit. Glamour fiomchildren'sartisoftenstickyandsweet, likesummercandy, while the worksofolder artists make up in subtlety and nuance what they of ten lack in immediate energy and vibrancy. Mortal creativity is a boundless rainbow of sensation, and no faerie ever experiences quite the same sensation twice. when rewarding Glamour, Storytellers should takecare toremember where it's coming from, and describe it accordingly, even i f only briefly. Players will think a lot more about spending the dreams of a good friend or an innocent class of amateur poets than they will i f they're simply told, 'You gain three Glamour Traits.'

## BEDLAM

'You besmocked fascists are all deluding you rselves. The colors I see are brighter; the sounds I hear are sweeter. The chimera aren't afraid of me any more; they gather around, even here. Sure the re's some pretty strange stuff out the re around the edges, but I don't care. This is the world we wanted. We've finally won. The Autumn will never come now. It's not even cold in here, surrounded by steel and the Dauntain. You fools. I may be a prisoner, but you've all failed! You're too late.'

-John do e, Devereux Foundation, Kennesaw, GA

## LO SIN^ you RSELETO BANALITY

Describing this sensation is tricky, because the fae won't remember sliding into Banality. That's kind of the point, actually. For those who have a little more time to witness their own decline, though, the ride is no less horrifying. First, the colors of the chimerical world start looking bleached, the sounds come across flat, the once-charming scents become tired and musty. Like a receiver picking up two stations at once, the mortal world begins to overlap the chimerical more and more of ten. The overlap from mere flickering seconds to several minutes at a time, which can have predictably disastrous consequences in moments of stress e

-. -. or drama. Worst of all, the character starts for getting the details of his faerie life as Banality climbs higher. Chimera seem frightening and strange; putting names to faces becomes a real chore, even with close friends and oathmates; reminiscing on times past, be they good or ill, is an exercise in tearful frustration. Finally, the changeling can't remember who s h is, what her place is in this strange world or why she's seeing the things she is, and she simply drops out of the chimerical world. Her Banal mind chooses to ignore what she is no longer capable of understanding. ## WRAITH: THE OBLIVION

## ~ A I N I N J L O S I N B PATHOS

Gaining Pathos from positive feelings can only be compared to those sublime moments in life when you feel like you could live on an emotion alone, that if you felt it any more intensely you r heart would simply soar away and burst into a brilliant shower of fireworks. It's a tangible pulse for med from the moment when you look into someone's eyes and think to you rself, 'I think I could lift the world and live for ever, if they asked me to.' Pathos gained from negative feelings, on the other hand, is a concentrated morsel of the icy, rotten surge of pleasure that you receive when you drag a hated rival through the mud or witness the anguish on a for mer lover's face when you r words open their old wounds afresh. Losing Pathos is just the opposite. It's the empty, spent feeling that comes when you've given everything you have to give, or the chill, listless void that replaces the heart when one's beloved breaks the bond for the final time. Memory of the passion remains, at once comforting and painful, but that is all. ## ~ A I N I N $ L OSING ANGST

Angst gained whispers, 'You have come all this way and suffered and felt so much, but it's all for not hing, not hing, not HING.' Different from the energizing if wicked rush that is gained from negative Pathos, Angst is a crippling, burning poison of the soul. It rockets through the character like a bullet train of sickening despair until it reaches the deepest recesses of the heart. the re it crashes in an explosion of defeat and shame, leaving a festering, oozing wound on the psyche. No matter how much Pathos you lose or gain, Angst remains the mocking voice of not hingness beneath it all. It laughs and reminds you always that come rise or fall, the void is ever watching... and ever hungry. Angst lost surpasses in intensity only a do zen or so things: an eleventh-hour pardon for the condemned, a joyous reconciliation for the broken-hearted, a Christmas armistice for the weary soldier, a child born to the previously barren. Regardless, the underlying truth is the same. The void can be defeated, the soul can triumph, and existence can be everlasting and glorious. ## STEP PIN^ THROUGH SOMETHINC~ SOLID

'It's a weird mix, man. When you first touch something solid from the other side, the re's this really intense, really plastic feeling, like you r skin's trying to morph around it instead of going through. Half a second, tops, but it's scary. You think you might just stretch and stretch and stretch until you just are that thing, you know? the n this deep, hollow feeling eats you r guts, and you get the serious

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL itchy-crawlies, like little spiders are walking all over you. the n poof! You're you again, but a little less you, like some got left behind, you know?'

-Skinny Jimmy, enfant Spook

## LOSING CONTROLTO you R OTHER SIDE

One moment, thoughts are flitting by normally; the next, it's like you're pulling each one from quick-dry cement. they're still coming, but slower and with more and more effort. That feeling keeps getting worse until you realize that you r thoughts aren't getting stuck, something else is puulng from the other side. As thoughts slide away faster and faster, fearpounces, asliding, lunging, gripping terror of quite literally losing you r mind to this dung. You dig in a s hard as you can, ripping you r nails, tearing you r mind, but at last -in agonyyou black out... and wake up to a nightmare. ## MOVINC~THROUGH THE TEMPEST

Crossing into the Tempest immediately swirls the senses into adizzy blur. You can see sounds, smell textures and touch the darkness all around you. This disorientation lasts but a moment for experienced travelers, but for others it can easily prove their undoing. Moving is like walking at the dim bottom of a weightless sea, surrounded by an intangible, enveloping fluid, where sudden movements or bright lights seem alien and out of place. And although you r other senses return to normal, the feeling of being able to touch the darkness around you never completely fades away. ## BEING MOLIATED

'Funny how the worst memories stick with you, even now. I remember being in high school, wanting so badly to fit in somewhere, but no matter what I did or how I tried to change, I was always rejected. I went from too fat, too prudish, too nerdy and too casual to being too thin, too popular, too slutty and too snobby. Strange as it sounds, being Moliated is a lot like that. You watch as someone else's hands take you r soul and twist it into what ever shape they want. It do esn't always hurt -not physically -but it's always intrusive and clumsy, like someone trying to add a piece to you r personality by slapping it on with bricks and mortar.'
- -Karen Harrington, Reaper

## SKINRIDING

First contact with the skin of the mortal to be ridden is electric. the re's a sharp, sizzling tingle, as if the soul inside is warning of f its competition. Once inside, it's like being wrapped in a warm, pulsing cocoon. The sights and sounds of the Underworld are blessedly indistinct, as if perceived through a thin, breathing membrane. The sensations of the host, how ever, are vivid and clear, although they too sometimes feel as if they're being received on a slight delay, which is a source of endless frustration to wraiths trying to vicariously relive the pleasures of mortality. ## HUMANS

## BEING EEDPROMBYA VAMPIRE

'When you're bitten, you have just enough time to think, 'Hey, that hur'before the ecstasy begins. Every nerve ending is active, every sense is wide open, every switch is flipped to 'YES!' You even start feeling like you r life for ce is floating right in front of you. You could reach out and actually touch you r soul if you wanted to. of course, that's because the bastard is stealing it from you, and part of you even knows it, deep do wn. But it's so beautiful, so powerful, that the rest of you do esn't even care. That's the scariest part of all.'

-Bethany, for mer Blood do ll

## THE DELIRIUM

'When I was sixteen, I was in a car accident. I only saw the other car right before it hit. Time seemed to slow do wn, sure, but the re was still this horrible sinking feeling in my stomach. It was disbelief wrapped up with the knowledge that it really wus happening, and that I was almost certainty gonna die. That's what it feels like when you see one of the se monsters start changin'. It's big, it's scary, it's all happening far too fast to be real, but deep do wn you r instincts know better, 'cause they take over. the re's no bravery or retreat or thought. You just run until you can't move, and you scream until you r lungs want to collapse. the n, if you're lucky, you'll only remember that slow-time in you r nightmares.'

-Tasker Garrison, Chicago

## BEINC~ BNCHANTED

'''I~s magical!' 'It's glorious!' 'It's every dream I've ever had!' Bulkhit! Like it or not -and believe me, most of the time they don't care either way -you're in their world, and you can't get out until they say so. Sure, it's not too bad at first; you r heart races, the re's a fluttering in you r stomach, and this bright, refreshing feeling, like you're finally using you r senses for the first time in you r life. And it is pretty damn amazing, especially the first time, like a storybook painting come to life, i f you'll pardon a cliche. Trouble is, deep do wn you know that this story won't go away when you want it to, and trust me, it do esn't take much of creepy little feeling of unreality before you start sliding to the edge of the big cliff marked 'CRAZY.' Especially when you remember how nasty the endings of most fairy tales are.'
- S t e v e Rhodes, embittered Kinain

## B E I N 9 POSSESSED

'It starts with a sudden shudder, rising from you r toes and going up you r spine and into you r soul. the re's a quick, cold pain, right in you r heart, and the n it's like you're standing a step behind you rself. You're just watching a movie, and you r skin feels either too tight or too loose. You really start to know what those big, awkward steam shovels and cranes on construction sites would feel if they could feel anything. 'the n you start hearing it. It starts talking, and you can scream and shout all you want, but you r body do esn't hear you. you r arms and legs just follow or ders that aren't you rs, and you can't even fight it. The voice do ing the talking do esn't hear you either. Except sometimes it do es.... Sometimes it's just as aware of you as you are of it. And sometimes it laughs when you try to fight it. 'Please. I don't want to talk about this anymore.'

-Marcus Delacourt, shattered medium

AT

## THFRF ARF MONSTFRS FVFRYWHFRF by Peter Woodworth

'Catch me, Daddy! I'm flying!'

Jessica sailed into his arms in what seemed to be cinematic slow motion, her long red hair and bright green sundress with its starburst pattern of sunflowers fanning out around her as she drifted through space. Laughing carelessly, Martin caught her and spun around in dizzy circles. 'OK, that's enough of that,' he rumbled as his own stomach started to protest, using his deepest Daddy voice. 'I don't want us to be all woogly before smile across his face. He was not as you ng as he used to be -not by a long stretch -and the effort and the sun had given him a nice sheen of sweat. wehave the nicelunch Mommymadeforus, OK?Shegiggled somemore, the n dashed away. Hewatchedhergo, hisprideandhishappinessspreadingaslow

'Martin!' He did n't need to feel his wife's hand on his a n n to know she was the re. On magical days like this, he thought, no one would. 'Honestly, honey, I thought you were going to make her sick, you spun her s o hard!'the re was no reproach i n the words, thoughjustlitlumorandmrelovetilltakingositinfh Reonl Onewas as natural to her ashe guessed it became for all mothers. "Bah!"Martin exclaimed, catching Carol by the waist and spinning her around aswell. She laughed, stammering something about not messing up her hair."I can still do this as hard as I want!"

Carol batted at his should ers playfully. 'OK, strong guy, put me do wn!'

'Why should I?' He spun faster, and she redoubled her laughter. 'I could do this for hours, and besides, if you don't stop making so much noise

'you'll wake up Jessica!'

Carol'svoice was hot and scandalized in his ear. He just grunted in response, lowering his head to kiss the warmth at the nape of her neck. She purred, digging her nails into his back with luxurious ease, their beat at once sweet and merciless as they fulfilled each other. 'You were saying?' He whispered, not letting up. Her only response was to plant her hands on his chest and roll him over, their bodies slipping exquisitely across the silk sheets they saved for occasions like this. His promotion, the one they'd been waiting for, the one that would move them from the tiny apartment to the house by the park they'd been talking about since before Jessica even came along. Two champagne flutes -both emptied about half an hour ago -stood on the dresser by the bed, looking almost elegant in the can dlelight. 'DO you want me to stop?' he teased, leaning up to kiss her. 'don't you dare!' she hissed, pushing him back do wn with a wicked smile. She moved, and he moved with her to keep the rhythm. She glanced over her should er at the trim white bassinet in the comer where Jessica was (hopefully) still deep in the blessedly peaceful sleep she had slipped into at the start of the evening. A smile rounded her lips, the kind of smile he'd only seen since Jessica was born, and when she kissed him next, he could almost taste the love flowing between them at the infinite bridge their lips made. I? just don't know if we should be

I

I grime, and the two of them walked to where Valentine's car was parked. Soon, they were just one more moving piece in the nightly commuter parade. Once they were safely underway, the you ng man spared him a casual sideways glance. 'Find what you were looking for?' I I

I

Martin held up his not ebook. 'Fake name, old address and even a phone number. Took a damn bit of digging, but I finally found a deed that had n't been buried in legalese, and it looks like he -it -still owns the place, judging by the listing I came across. It was about 10 years old, but what's 10 years to one of the se things, right?'

'Right,' Valentine said evenly. 'Good job.'

'than ks.'

As was usually the case, Valentine faced this mission with steely equanimity. He never got excited before or during a hunt, he claimed, because giving in to excitement made him sloppy. Since what had happened in all entown, Valentine never said much of anything anymore. Martin, on the other hand, remained quiet and outwardly calm for a different reason. The only excitement he felt on the hunt was the ice-water pulse of clammy fear. It took his every reserve to marshal it and rein it in, even though he never faced the monsters in person. I

I p '

'So where did we wind up this time?' he asked, hoping to change the subject. I I '

'Hilton. Kevin and Chambers are the re now. Denise and dinner. you r news should be nice for desert, yeah?' fingers on top of the steering wheel idly, but he might have been asleep for all the excitement he showed. The silence stretched out between the m, and the song on the radio separated them like an invisible wall. It was not hing Martin recognized, of course, but it had a decent beat, so he watched the river, the city and the n the busy anonymity of suburbia flow by, trying not to see himself reflected in the glass. I

I, I

I

'So tomorrow Denise and I will do some recon, learn the layout of the neighborhood, exit routes, anything else that we might need to know about,' Chambers began once everyone had eaten and given their reports. 'Martin, I'd like you to go to city hall and see i f you can get the plans for the building interior. Most places in that are a are rowhouses, though, so if you can't find that specific one, see ifyoucangetaplanforthattypeofhouse. We'llstructureourstrategy to workaround any alterations it might've made if needs be. Valentine, escort him, same as before.'

Chambers was making his usual rounds, the casual authority they'd granted him full in his voice. He'd been a Marine for 10 years before starting this ludicrous crusade, and everyone deferred to him when it came to planning an you and Kevin mind holding do wn the for t while we're away?' Sounds of agreement all around. Chambers grinned, reaching for the last of the lo mein. 'Alright the n, I'd say we're ready to go. Nine actual attack. 'Last but not least -Kurt, o'clock sound good to everyone?'

I

I

The others winced a little, but Martin and sleep were old enemies now. 'Fine by me,' he agreed, and the others voiced their assent behind him, not wanting to be shown up by their oldest (and newest) member. That brought the of ficial meeting to a close, and out came the ceiebratory alcohol. they did n't drink too much, of course, but they had enough to bring on a temporary feeling of release. ITHERE are MONSTERS EVERYWHERE

Except Martin. Pleading eyestrain from a day of paging through old records, he wanderedoff to bed, shrugging of f their familiar pitying looks. Pour oldguy, he figured they were thinking. He's crippled, and he still do es m e than his share. He did n't want or need their pity. The only thing he wanted from them -a reliable way out of this insane life they led -was something they couldn't give him, no matter how they momised to be trying to find it. No matter how much they'd do ne for him since he joined the m, he Auidn. t help but hate them all a little when they pitied him. He wanted to go home, but they kept telling him that it wasn't safe. they kept relying on him to help them while they protected him, and they tried only occasionally to find out what he had do ne to attract the ill attention of one of the undead. they convinced him not to leave, yet they pitied him for still wanting to. After lying in bed thinking along those lines for nearly an hour, Martin still felt nowhere near sleepy. Instead, he found himself groping through his knapsack until he found the not ebook he'd been using earlier that day. He flicked on the bedside light so he could make out his looping handwriting. Frank Clark, the not es read. Hmmm. Nice anonymous name for a monster to hide under, totally unaware that it had been discovered. than ks to Martin's do gged research, his people knew where Mister Clark lived. In 48 hours, they were going to make their move, and the monster did n't even suspect. they knew its defenses and its disguises, and they were going to kill it. they were informed, armed and ready. they had been tracking this particular creature since before the all entown fiasco, and they were finally in a position to strike. after they had left Greg behind with half his face blown of f. Instead of a sleeping, undead monster, they had found no less than 10 armed men waiting for the m, and Greg had been the first through the thing's have n do or. The rest of them had fled instantly, spattered with their comrade's blood, bone and hair, but their escape was a narrow one. After everyone regrouped at the temporary safe house, they nearly disbanded their crusade, even over Chambers' enraged protests. they would have gone their separate ways entirely if not for the fear that they would be hunted do wn individually. Itwas a hollow thought, though, as it had been ever since all entown. Martinstill remembered the sicksmellofblood and the lookontheothers'faces

And the re was truth to the fears; after all entown, they had been unable to deny that at least one of the monsters was aware of who they were and was tracking the m. Martin's hindsight wondered at how they could've been so foolish as to be believe that word of their efforts wouldn't travel eventually. all entown had been a trap, pure and simple, and although they'd managed to get everyone except Greg out alive, the re was no need for anyone to point out that they couldn't possibly be so lucky next time. they did n't even know what they'd do ne to give the mselves away the last time, and the one who'd uncovered them was still out the re. What if this is you r time? the nagging voice in Martin's mind demanded. How sure are you that the information you found isn't exactly what the monster wanted you to find? If you don't kill this thing that calls itself Clark, you'll all b e dead. No use in denying it. Even if you do destroy it, though, how long until another one picks up you r trail? You don't even know how many are on to you. What, you think the other creaturesaregoingtocorneout, shakehands, say 'Wellplayed and let you of fthefield? That's crazy and you know it. Martin did know it. He had said the same to the other hunters since the beginning, and they just turned it around in his face as another reason that he couldn't go back to his family yet. You'regettingold, Martin, and you'recrippkdon topofthat, hisvoice of reason persisted. How mny more months can you live like this? Cold sweat beaded on his brow. Always looking over you r should er for things that you might not even b e able EO see coming at all anyway? Living on takeout food like a scavenging rat. Let's be realistic, Marty old boy -maybe four or fi w e tops. 1. 'Stop it,' he whispered to himself, closing the not ebook and turning over fretfully. He knew it wasn't too healthy, talking to himself like that, but ever since Greg had died he'd worked through his feelings by making them into an adversarial inner dialogue. Besides, if a little indulgence like this helped keep him mostly sane in the long term, he was more than happy to put up with it. 'I'm do ing this because it needs to be do ne. Because the monsters have to be stopped.'

I

L,- don't b e an idiot. You'll wind up dead somewhere -you and probably everyone with you now -and for what? Do you honestly think this little group can destroy them all? What will it really mean that you gave up you r life for this bloody crusade? One that no one else even knows about anyway? don't try to kidme. You know the answer as well as I do. ' I

'But the others-' Martin rolled over, hearing the laughter and low tones of conversation in the room beyond. 'I owe them for saving my life.'

You'we repaid any debts 10 times over. Besides, they're as good as dead now too Gregwasn'tstupidorunpreparedorevenafraid, but he's stilldead. It'sgoingtohappen to all of you. You're not going to save the world, Martin. I anyway，and oukoit. uethyeugerthanoubutsnerrlatet all wind up like Greg. they don't have for ever toplan and wait like the enemy do es. I

Martin began weeping softly, as he had so many nights before this. I And knock that ojf. It's distracting. Martin's tears obediently hitched into shallow breaths as he listened. So you're a U do omed, so what? It's just time you faced it, that's all. I don't l i k e it any more than you do, b u t while you just lie the re and pine for Carol and Jesse all the time, I've been thinking. I've been do ing a lot of thinking, and I think1 might have founda way out after all. Now listenclosely Martin, and maybe some day soon you won't need afnend li k e me anyme. You've still got th e thing's phone number, and you r little attack isn't going to happen for two m e who le days... L I

I

In the darkness, Martin listened. Two endless days passed. Recon came and went, watching the house for signs of dangers that might have been missed the first, second, even third time around. Chambers came up with the plan of attack, as usual. He, Kevin and Valentine would go through the front do or, while Kurt and Denise swept through the back exit and Martin would wait in the van, which would be idling and ready to roll as soon as the last team member jumped in. Out of arrogance or stupidity, the monster lived alone, so they would go in before sundown, cut the thing's head of f and torch its home before it even woke up. Attacking in daylight upped their risk of being spotted and recognized, but the idea was preferable to that of facing one of the se things after dark. Plus, they'd managed to avoid police entanglements thus far with no problems. I I r a

II

C'

Martin smiled at all the right points, nodded when it was his turn and joined the team prayer with true sincerity. Denise even commented on how cheerful he seemed for once, and Martin simply clapped her on the should er with his healthy hand. 'Each one we get is one step closer to going home, right?' he said, and they all shared a laugh at that. Valentine even grunted an affirmative, which was as close to hearty approval as Martin expected to get from him. Half an hour more passed, and Martin sat alone in a van two blocks from the monster's den. The others had crept to their places at either do or of the house, and everyone wore radio earphones to remain in contact. 'Everybody ready? Chambers asked quietly over the crackling, staticky frequency. Everyone murmured assent one by one. "Good, Chambers said back."On the count of three. We'll meet in the middle the nhead in the basementwhere it's probably hidden." the basement do or creak open, and he saw the dark stairwell leading do wnward Chambers counted do wn slowly——agonizingly slowly——and the five huntersmade theirway into the beast's lair. the ymovedquickly, callingout, "Clear,"as they walked from room toroom. Martin listened to them deciding curtly to go do wnstairs, and he held his breath. He heardwhatmust have been in his mind's eye. "God bewith you, Martin saidcalmly into his headsetmic. Hesaiditevery time, but the wordscaughtinhisthroat. Onewordofwarningwouldbringthem all back to the van. Onewordwould stop the attack and reel them all in so they would be safe. Martin folded the hingedmicrophone away from his mouth and clenched his jaw shut tight. No turning back now, Martin, his voice of reason told him. Start the car. Get going before you find out i f that thing in the re changed its mind since yesterday. Martin started the car, but he did n't drive away right the n. Before he could convince himself otherwise, he folded do wn his radio mic and said, 'I'm sorry everyone. the re wasn't any other way.'

The sound of heavy-caliber gunfire cut of f his comrades' sounds of confusion and thundered in his earphone. Someone screamed -Chambers maybe, or Kevin -and Martin yanked the radio apparatus up of f his head. He dropped it in his lap on top of his crippled hand, put the van in gear and peeled away in a smoky squeal of tires. His voice of reason congratulated him on do ing the right thing, finally, but the tinny, small shouts coming from the earphone in his lap drove nails through his ears. He tossed the small piece of equipment into the back of the van, but even the n, he believed he could still hear the confused and angry screams of people who have been betrayed. Martin could've made it home in under six hours if he'd been driving fulltilt, and indeed every time he ducked of f the highway to take a detour do wn a back road, his heart cursed him for delaying his reunion with Carol and Jesse that much longer. Reason won out, though, and his paranoid habits were just too strong. He had n't come this far just to let some two-bit flunky of 'Mister Clark' follow him home and renege on the deal, after all. So he kept to back roads as of ten as he could, checked his rearview mirror of ten and otherwise turned a sixhour trip into a full 22-hour trek. By the end, coffee was all that kept him awake... that and the voice in the back of his head. He wondered blearily if it would stay with him for ever, growing louder even as his current nightmares faded in the renewed light of family life. But the thoughts faded away as Martin turned of f the highway for the last time. All he had to do was ditch the van somewhere and call a cab to take him home. Not a safehouse or a dingy hotel that accepted only cash. Home. His home. He'd need a convincing lie to explain where he'd been for so long, but he could think of that later. All he could think about now were two smiling faces he had n't seen in a lifetime of fear. smelled like? Martin couldn't imagine, but the re it was again, full for ce, the scent of his very own house and family. Hiskeytiwkdeaunufsta in the foyerofhishouse, overwhelmedbythesheerfamiliarityofit, the sense of belonging, the smell of the house itself. how had he everforgottenwhatit

He took a step toward the staircase, but froze in sudden indecision. As happy as he was, should he really go upstairs right the n? He'd surely scare the life out of his wife and daughter if he did. He looked like a monster that was falling apart, and that was not hing to wake up to in the dead of night. Plus, what if Carol and Jesse did n't even want to see him? What if they thought he had run out on the m, and seeing him only made them angry? The waiting was into lerable now that he him back. Surely they'd be glad to see him again, but maybe... was actually home, but he wanted to do this right so his family would welcome

'Tough call, isn't it?' a scratchy voice said from the shadows through the do or way into his kitchen. At once Martin's heart became a block of ice. He could actually feel the muscle clench like a stalled pendulum; pregnant with motion and yet unmoving. The voice was as hot as his blood was cold, and hate sparked from it like fire seeds drifting from a lava flow. The presence of such strong emotion was alien to the sound, but Martin recognized the voice immediately. It was Valentine. Well shit, Martin, his voice of reason whispered lamely. 'Wake them up now, give them heart failure?' Valentine continued, coming no closer, 'or sit on the porch and play with you rself until morning, hoping that the sight of you indaylight won't drop you rpretty wife inher tracks?'

Valentine stepped for ward into the pool of streetlight illumination that came in through the window from outside. He clutched a thick wad of deeply stained cloth against his neck, and a dark beard of dried blood stained the front of his shirt. A long, superficial cut trailed out from under the makeshift pressurebandage and split his earlobe in half. Chambers appeared in the do or behind him, leaning on a shotgun as a crutch. A cinched belt squeezed his left leg just beneath the crotch, choking of f a bad cut in the middle of his thigh. Both men came toward Martin with fire in their eyes. 'Love of God,' Martin managed to gasp, speaking as slowly and softly as possible so as not to wake up his family. 'I thought you were dead! than k God you're alive.'

Valentine's eyes narrowed. the RE ARE MONSTERSEVERYWHERE

'don't, old man,' he rasped fiercely. Talking screwed up his face with pain, but he did n't stop. 'don't even.'

Chambers bumped into the banister rail and sat do wn on the bottom step. The stairs led up to Martin's family's bedrooms. Chambers' eyes were glassy and unfocused, but he held the shotgun steadily. He propped it up on the step beside him and pointed the business end at Martin. 'I'm going to kill him, Val,' the man said. 'Quiet,' Valentine said over his should er. 'I told you no.'

Martin had never seen Valentine like this. Even after Greg had died, Valentine had showed little emotion, despite the fact that he and Greg had been the best of friends. He had cried with the rest of the m, but he had gotten on with his life and his mission afterward. Now, he was a man possessed. 'Valentine listen,' Martin said, raising his good arm warily. 'What I did-'

'I said don't lie to me!'Valentine shouted. Shouting ripped the inside of his savaged throat raw, and he coughed up a wad of bloody phlegm for his effort. When he spoke again, it was in a whisper. 'Clark told us everything, you piece of shit. If you lie again, it'll be the last thing you do.'

'Clark?' Martin gawped. 'Clark,' Valentine said. 'Yes, he was the re, waiting behind a line of his little rent-a-cop soldiers. That bastard stayed up all day waiting for us. He had an awful lot to say when the gunfire stopped and he was the only one left, though. He told us about you r little phone call. He told us about Greg.'

'Greg?' Martin whispered in horror. 'What about Greg?'

From the stairway, Chambers cocked the shotgun viciously and half rose from his seated position. The end of the barrel wobbled, but it pointed mostly in Martin's direction. Valentine glared angrily at Chambers, while Martin looked with rabbit eyes, but Chambers stood his ground. 'I'm going to do it,' he said. 'He's lying.'

'Put it do wn,' Valentine hissed at his partner. 'Now.'

Chambers hesitated for a long time the n finally sank back do wn on the step. He still pointed the shotgun at Martin, though. 'I told you, Martin,' Valentine said. His voice layered anger over a barely not iceable hint of sorrow. 'don't lie to us. Clark told us everything before we put him do wn. He told us about how you set us up in all entown and again yesterday. We know everything already.'

'all entown?' Martin said. His jaw hung do wn, and ice ran in his veins. 'I did n't have anything to do with all entown. I don't care what Clark told you, Valentine.'

Valentine just shook his head. 'I almost want to believe you, old man. But that's what got us here. It's really amazing how many of us you got rid of before we figured you out.'

'Valentine, please,' Martin said desperately. 'You've got to believe me.' 'We already made the mistake,' Valentine said. 'We're not listening any more.'

He went over to the stairwell and helped Chambers to his feet. Chambers wobbled dangerously, and Valentine had to strain to support him. they stood and made their way slowly back toward the kitchen and the house's back do or. Martin stood mute in shock the n took a tentative step toward the two wounded men. 'Where are you going?' he asked. 'What are you going to do?' Why had they even come, if not to kill him? 'not hing,' Valentine said thinly, breathing heavily in his effort to keep Chambers moving. The light had gone out of Chambers' eyes, but he shuffled for ward zombie-like anyway. The shotgun hung limply from his hand by the trigger guard that had caught around his finger. 'We're leaving. If you're smart, you'll do the same.'

'What?' Martin walked over and grabbed Valentine by the arm. 'What are you saying?'

Valentine shook free, nearly dropping Chambers as he did so. 'Ws the best chance you're going to get,' he said. 'And it's better than you deserve. We thought Clark was lying about you, but we looked through his stuff before we left. He had you r name and address and everything else he might want to know about you printed out in his records. When the rest of the bloodsuckers come looking for him, they're going to find out about you, and they're going to come looking for some answers. they're going to come here first, you can be sure.'

'But... my family,' Martin said helplessly. 'I've got to-'

'they're not here,' Chambers mumbled, seeming to fight for every second of consciousness. 'Dumb shit.'

'What?'

Valentine scowled at his wounded comrade, but he turned back to Martin with a pained sigh. 'they're not,' he confirmed at last. 'Where are they?' Martin half demanded, half pleaded. After what he'd do ne and how far he'd come... 'We moved them after you joined up with us.'

That?' Martin said again stupidly. The muscles in his knees tried to stop working, and he had to lean against the do or jamb just inside the kitchen. 'We did n't tell you because we did n't want you running out to try and see them before we figured out why the bloodsucker was stalking you in Pittsburgh,' Valentine said. 'Once we took care of that one, we were going to take you to see the m. We couldn't risk it before the n, though. That's how we work.'

Martin started crying, and Valentine snorted in disgust. 'they're not here?' he said, mainly to himself. 'Better follow their example,' Valentine said. He said it with out turning back, now that he had gotten Chambers moving again. He paused at the back do or just long enough to open it, but even the n, he did n't look back. 'You'd best get going now, Martin. the re are monsters everywhere, and they know where you are. And if I ever see you again..,'

Valentine finished the threat and carried Chambers the rest of the way outside, but Martin did n't hear it. He also did n't hear the sound of Valentine's car pulling away into the night. He couldn't even enjoy the silence now that he was alone in what had been his home. His voice of reason was far too loud in his ears. It laughed and laughed, drowning out all other sounds. LTHERE ARE MONSTERS EVERYWHERE

A

## ANTAGONISTS THAT MATTFR d by David Tancredi

Regardless of its scope, depth or genre, every story has the same basic ingredients. Each tale follows a viewpoint character. Every character strives to attain some goal. Some obstacle always stands in the way of any worthwhile goal. The action of any story that can rightly call itself a story includes the character overcoming the obstacle in or der to achieve his goal. In many storiesespecially in stories told through live-action roleplaying -the obstacle in question is represented by a dynamic, thrilling antagonist. An antagonist makes an obstacle of himself by either striving to reach the viewpoint character's goal first himself or by do ing everything he can to keep the viewpoint character from reaching it at all. Creating thrilling adversaries on a regular basis isn't easy, though. It takes time to develop an opponent that can challenge players. Care must be taken to ensure that antagonists don't overrun the current story, overpower the troupe or draw the spotlight away from players. When you, as a Storyteller, bring an antagonist to life successfully, you add an intriguing new personality to the game. One that will inspire interest in the current story and attract new players. In recent years, a large number of types of antagonist have been converted to the Mind's Eye the atre system. Storytellers can choose from a variety of denizens of the World of Darkness and inject into their games which ever ones work best for the story. While it's hardly exhaustive, the following list shows gives advice on how to use the various types of antagonists to their best effect in you r live-action chronicles. (Keep in mind, though that what type of monster an antagonist is shouldn't be what carries its importance to the story. A strong antagonist will carry itself whether it's a Sabbat vampire, a Spectre, a fomori or a mortal. A poorly conceived antagonist will not be redeemed as a story ingredient just because it is Kuei-jin or a Pentex employee. Determining the type of antagonist to use is one of the last steps in the creation process, and many other choices must be made long before any statistics get written.)

## VAM p I R E S

## CAMARILLA A N D SAB BAT

One of the main conflicts that exists in a Laws of the Night chronicle is that between the Camarilla and the Sabbat sects. The ideologies of the se two societies are completely incompatible. The Sabbat revels in its inhumanity and believes firmly that the Camarilla is a front for the manipulations of the Antediluvians. Alternatively, the Camarilla is convinced that vampires can survive the Final Nights by hiding behind the Masquerade and holding onto some semblance of humanity. On a more base level, Camarilla and Sabbat vampires oppose each other for resources like territory and food. who ever controls the distribution of food in a given are a retains the power, and the sects come together internally more to protect their resources than to but t heads over ideological disagreements. That aside, how ever, vampires are not hing if not masters of self-delusion. Centuries of conflict and top-do wn micro-management have created loneheld stereotypes in each sect about the other. Since the Anarch Revolt centuries ago, surviving Camarilla elders have been telling their new childer that the Sabbat are honorless hooligans who crave only elderblood and reprehensible diablerie. Conversely, the Sabbat have always preached that participants in the Camarilla's system feudal slavery are hypocritical pawns of the Antediluvians who would just as soon throw a beloved childe to the wolves as defend the mselves and their childer. the se impressions are set so firmly in the vampiric experience, that they affect the way Sabbat and Camarilla antagonists react to members of their rival sect. While slavish devotion to type becomes predictable and boring, a Storyteller would be remiss to discount the se impressions out of hand. Sabbat vampires believe that they are monsters, but it is important not to treat them as that alone. Sabbat packs are more than tools to incite combat. Only physically or iented characters get involved in senseless fighting, and encouraging too much of that kind of conflict alienates the players who prefer less overt pursuits. As an antagonist for ce, the Sabbat is a much more complex and or ganized sect than would seem apparent from the behavior of the average War Party. With proper preparation, Sabbat vampires can creep subtly into a Camarilla city, and the n overrun it when the time is right. While their methods and perspective are different, can ny Sabbat elders understand the value of using Influence and manipulation against their mortal herds. they also know how to attack the holdings and resources of their enemy in such a way that leaves him powerless before an assault. Carefully staged attacks of Sabbat rabble-rousers draw attention away from more subtle and insidious maneuvers. Those players that decide to refrain from combat still have an opportunity to interact with the story by discovering the real motivation for an attack. Those Camarillists who have been treated poorly by the Camarilla hierarchy must also test their faith against cunning Sabbat recruiters who would rather make all ies than enemies. Camarilla vampires make equally compelling antagonists as well. they do not bide their time in their lavish have ns, sitting in repose and drinking bloodewyne. Nor do they sit idly by while Sabbat vampires assault their cities. they for tify their have ns, manipulate mortal for ces with in cities for their defense and even engage in counter-strikes against invading vampires. In securing resources and expanding their power base, ambitious (or ballsy) Camarilla Kindred are not averse to invading Sabbat territory the mselves. they do so differently (i. e., far more subtly) than Sabbat invaders do, but the threat is still very real. Defeating a Camarilla antagonist takes perception, wit, determination and ferocious cunning. ## KINDREDOETHE EAST

A new enemy marches against the children of Caine in the World of Darkness. The Kuei-jin from the opposite side of the world have existed for ages behind aveil of secrecy, but now they have begun to make their move on western vampiric territory. When compared to Kindred and Sabbat, the se Eastern vampires have a radically different philosophy on their place in the world. they feed differently, they relate to one another differently, and they exist for a purpose that few western vampires can understand. Kuei-jin consider western vampires barbaric and self-absorbed heathens with out a proper respect for their place in the world. Kin-jin who are aware of the existence of the Kindred of the appropriately, of course, in or der to do it justice beyond the stereotype. East find them inscrutable, stuck up and violently opposed to even peaceful culturalexchange. Using Kuei-jin as antagonists ina western vampire chronicle (or vice-versa)can add an exoticflavor toanotherwisestaidor stalesetting. Care must be taken to represent the alien culture (which ever one it is)

## INEBRNALISTS

Infemalist vampire characters make occasional appearances in live-action vampire games as antagonists as well. The topic of Infemalism helps players and Storytellers explore is sues of absolute good and evil, especially when the story calls for a clear distinction between the two. Vampires of both sects and even the Kueijin all have problems with those who have sold their souls to Hell's legions, and Infemalists the mselves have few redeeming qualities. all ied with the legions of Hell, an Infemalist can truly put a character's faith and conviction to the test. Unfortunately, conflicts against Infemalists reflect the broader is sues of spirituality, humanity, corruption and common evil poorly. When an antagonist starts sprouting horns and singing the praises of Satan, it's pretty easy to see what side she's on. While opposing evil for the sake of opposing evil do es make for a fun game, you can tell a more compelling and intense story by blurring the absolute boundaries of morality and for cing characters to choose where they stand. ## 9 B N E R I C VAMP I R E A NTAC~ONI STS

Regardless of their internecine distinctions, vampires make great antagonists just by virtue of being monsters. Boiled do wn to their essential story elements, vampires are undead monsters who drink human blood. they represent humanity's fear of the dark and of the dark places in the human mind itself. While they seem human and even genteel to casual inspection, an uncontrollable feral half lurks behind the predatory gleam in their eyes. they'll stop at not hing to make the mselves safe and keep the mselves fed. This self-serving determination and ruthless instinct makes vampires of all stripes f e m m e and deadly opponents in any chronicle. ## WE REWO LVE s

In many were wolf chronicles, Fomori, Black Spiral Dancers, Banes and other Wyrm-spawn get lumped under one banner mistakenly. It's important to look at each type of antagonist a were wolf character might face, in or der to use it to its best effect in a story. You should also keep in mind that 'minions of the Wyrm' are not the only compelling antagonists out the re. ## BLACK SPIRAL DANCERS

As for mer members of the Garou Nation, Black Spiral Dancers have an intimate understanding of were wolf culture and lore. they know how to invoke fear in a steadfast Ahroun, and they can corrupt the purest Silver Fang. Black Spirals are not how ling beasts that rise up from their tunnels, attack with out any strategy, the n retreat back into the dark. Black Spiral Dancers are some of the most cunning and dangerous adversaries a were wolf can face. they're able to utilize every resource a Garou can access with the added support of the Wyrm. they fight in packs, they or ganize, and they are just as skilled in seductive spiritual corruption as they are in physical combat. Worse yet, they are arguably more focused on their Wyrm-given spiritual mission than many uncorrupted Garou are in Gaia's defense. Converting and cleansing a Black Spiral Dancer of his taint is far more difficult than corrupting a Rage-filled Garou who's sick and tired of fighting of what seems a losing battle. ## PENTEX

Agents and supporters of the Wyrm-ridden Pentex corporation are enemies that many Garou aren't prepared to deal with. The company exists to spread the taint of the Wyrm to the common man by wrapping it up in attractive packages. The company provides modem luxury and convenience with nary an apparent do wn-side, and yet every product carries a subtle hint of the Corrupter's taint. But how do es one fight tooth and claw against paper and marketing? Even connected Glass Walkers have difficulty dealing with this corporate monstrosity. Eager you ng recruits flock to Pentex every year in hopes of a good, high-paying job. Even if were wolves manage to take out a Pentex lackey, scores more are waiting to fill the void of his passing. Even if were wolves put a stop to one villainous goal on a Pentex agenda, numerous contingencies and other goals exist to see that the Wyrm's work is do ne. As long as the corporation exists, were wolves' work to keep the Wyrm in check will never be finished. The most compelling reason to use Pentex antagonists, how ever, is for the moral dilemma they represent. Pentex and its subsidiaries have touched every modern convenience in the World of Darkness, many of which homid-born Garou have relied upon all their lives. From the power that runs the lights at night to the plastic bristles on the tip of a toothbrush, Pentex products make life easier. So what if a few trees are cut do wn or the carbon ratio rises in the atmosphere? And what do es it benefit apackor sept of Garou to remove Pentex's influence entirely from an are a, only to have the bereft citizens of that are a riot and revolt over its absence?Astory involvinga Pentex antagonist for ces a troupe to examine how far were wolf characters are will ing to go in their holy war against the designs of the Wyrm. ## EOMORI

The much-maligned fomori are generally of small consequence in a liveaction were wolf chronicle. they're not strong enough individually to take on a Crinos Ahroun, but groups of them can still cause plenty of trouble. Alas, or cs in fantasy games get more character development than fomori. Fomori are tortured souls that go through unimaginable suffering. they're desperate to survive in a world where their own lives have no value. This desperation makes them truly dangerous. Fomori can become versatile antagonists. they can be molded with different powers and abilities to get any job do ne. It is important not to overlook the usefulness of fomori when creating long-term opponents against the Garou. ## SPIRITS

Many different types of spirits exist in the Umbra. A few are helpful, others are mischievous, and even more aid the Wyrm's corruption. Spirits fill specific niches in the Umbral ecology, and their story utility is more that of obstacles rather than specific antagonists. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Most spirits do not set out to wreck characters' goals on purpose, but m a spirits oppose said goals just by virtue of what kind of spirits they are. A tot( spirit may disagree with the actions of a sept and try to enact some form punishment. A Wyld-spirit may attempt to stop a pack from completing a qu just because. A Weaver-spirit might attack interlopers in the Umbra and m z them part of the Pattern Web just to cut do wn on the unacceptable randomnc

Spirits also have many different levels of power. Some spirits have exisl for eons, and can be more than a match for a wise elder. Spirits are neitk subservient nor automatically indebted to the Garou. with out the aid a powers of the spirit world, the Garou would be lost. Spirits teach rites and Gi: and they empower fetishes and talens. they must be propitiated and cham in or der to convince them to be of assistance. Numerous stories can abound fr( the interaction between were wolves and spirits. A were wolf troupe has d c nitely gone awry when it views spirits as weak or easily duped Gnosis batteri

## 0 THE R were WOLVES

Even with all of the se for ces working against the m, were wolves are th own worst enemy. For centuries, the tribes have quarreled over territory, ra and prestige, and a complex system for resolving conflicts and disputes has gro from this bickering. When passions run so high among creatures to whc do minance and position are of paramount importance, conflict is sure to ari

Creating rivals from with in the ranks of a sept gives Storytellers t opportunity to explore social and political is sues. The way in which Gal crusade is carried out is just as important to some Garou as the crusade itself, a disagreements of that nature have raged as long as the Garou have. Garou h z always had trouble compromising on is sues of how far they are will ing to go a what amount of carnage equals an acceptable casualty figure. While t infighting distracts the Garou from their Gaia-given role on Earth, it makes wonderful dramatic tension in a long-running chronicle. ## 9 E N E R I c WE RE w o L E ANTAC~ o N I ST s were wolves are terrifying opponents in any chronicle. they live in i woods, practice bizarre rites, eat flesh and fly into berserk rages of bloc destruction with little provocation. they're supernaturally strong and resilie but even still they travel in packs. Fury bubbles inside the m, waiting for the fi opportunity to explode. As story ingredients, were wolves represent all 1 unreasoning violence 'out the re' in nature that has frightened city-dwell. men and women for so long. Furthermore, they seem bent on destroying so m L of what makes human life bearable for what it is. When you don't understand or find you rself on the wrong side of -the holy mission that drives World Darkness were wolves, the se beasts are horrifying to behold. ## MAC~ES

## THE TECHNOCRACY

The future of humankind is intricately linked with reason, technology a progress, and Technocrats work day and night all over the world to see that tl link remains unbroken. they hold that or der and science can explain the wo

~~ and make it safe for humanity in perpetuity. The magic they engage in involves convincing the Masses that this view is correct and demonstrating as much through technological advances and miracle breakthroughs in all fields of science. Since its inception, the Technocracy has do ne a superb job of making the people of Earth accept its paradigm. Despite its noble goals, how ever, the Technocracy is responsible for agents who make compelling antagonists. Part of creating a worldwide consensual paradigm lies in enforcing that world-view, which calls for the containment and 'correction' of any element that defies that view. Unfortunately, all supernatural creatures are unacceptable divergences from the norm, and Reality Deviant mages are even less welcome. The very existence of the supernatural defies scientific codification, and as such, it must be eliminated from the consensual reality. In fact, anyone who opposes the Technocratic paradigm (or any part of it) must eventually be eliminated from the consensus. The Technocratic vision for the future is one of complete conformity and cooperation, in which everyone is safe and well cared for than ks to the infallible arms of science. Generic Technocrat antagonists include field operatives who prowl in search of 'unacceptable' levels of deviance from the paradigmatic norm, Control scientists who must test their the or ies and creations on expendable samples of the population and less-than-human constructs created to supplement the efforts of the other two. For the most part, Technocrat antagonists are more concerned with the bottom line and the greater good than the needs of the individual. In the Utopian future, the individual has no significance anyway, right? ## THE TRADITIONS

The Traditions have grown their own fair share of monsters. Greed and power are strong motivators among Awakened will workers. with out proper apprenticeship, proud mages are more likely to abuse their magic regardless of the consequences. Even experienced mages cause trouble when their spells fail spectacularly or they simply feel like flexing their mental muscles. What's more, many Tradition mages are caught up in the age-old Ascension War. they stand up against Technocratic 'tyranny' and assert that humanity has just as much a right to accept and rely on the Supernatural as they do on science. Humans should be all owed to make up their own minds and open the mselves up to the infinity of possibility that True Magic of fers. As such, how ever, the se mages are for ced to take on people's long-held reliance on the foundation of scientific thought, and they have to rock the boat constantly. Characters who are comfortable with the status quo don't usually appreciate actions that amount to terrorism for its own sake. Further compounding the problem is the fact that not every magical Tradition agrees on what would make an ideal world. Each Tradition do es magic in a different way, some of which are opposed to each other directly. Inter Tradition maneuvering for advantage in the Ascension War can generate just as much conflict as the war itself. Especially as older mages realize more and more clearly that the war to which they've given so much of the mselves is all but hopeless. the se embittered spell-weavers have grown desperate and can ny, which makes them all the more dangerous. ## MORTALS

An antagonist do esn't need supernatural powers to be an awesome foe. In many situations, a human with the right amount of influence, abilities and money is much better suited to achieve a goal than a supernatural creature. Humanity is the for ce that runs the World of Darkness, and supernatural creatures all exist outside that for ce. Humans have numbers as well. A large industrial city could hold 40-50 vampires, but a mortal crime lord could have hundreds of people working for him alone. While one human being isn't much of a threat to, say, a rampaging were wolf, a large group of smart, well-armed human beings who have time to plan can put a careless were wolf in a world of hurt. Any vampire who wants to stake a claim on a citywide sphere of influence must first deal with the humans who make it up. No supernatural creature can afford to discount the power humanity has over the modem world. ## C RBATI o N C ~ U I DE LI NE s

When creating an antagonist for any genre or any chronicle, it's important to give him are al personality. His personality determines how he do es things and why and what lengths he's will ing to go to. An enemy who's an enemy for the sake of enmity isn't compelling or memorable -he's a monster of the week. Creating a complete person as an antagonist, one with who m some characters can even sympathize, will establish that antagonist in the players' memory as a character rather than a collection of Traits with which to play Rock-Paper Scissors. Using the following guidelines will get you started. ## MOTIVATION

## I N - CHARACTER MOTIVATION

Defining the motivation of an antagonist is the first step in his development. The motives can be simple greed, envy, lust or self-preservation, or they can be complex and hidden behind a web of deceit. The antagonist could be the unwitting pawn of a greater for ce, or he may be the greater for ce himself. what ever the case is, the antagonist has no purpose with out a motive. Real people do things for reasons, no matter how bizarre, and the same is do ubly true for characters in stories. An antagonist's purpose in a story is prevent the characters from reaching their goals, but he do es not do so just for the sake of do ing so. His reasons for opposing the characters are what make him memorable as a character in his own right. The motives also define the antagonist's targets. It's important to recognize early in the creation process which opponents an antagonist will face. For example, a vampiric Anarch bent on wreaking havoc in a Camarilla do main may have to worry about the prince's sheriff and deputies. By listing targets ahead of time, the antagonist can prepare for future conflicts. The motivations of an antagonist help determine its targets as well. A simple lupine-hunting Gangrel vampire should know better than to rush into a caern's bawn and throw do wn with the Warder. An Amalgam of Technocrat agents isn't going to pursue vague suspicions that City Hall is run by vampires when the agents have veryreal proof that Reality Deviant mages are blowing up can cer-research laboratories. Declaring the motivations of an antagonist helps determine its power level as well. An enemy who's too strong for some might be too weak for others in the same game, especially as the number of players gets larger. After creating a set of specific motives, think about how much power the antagonist needs to meet those goals. do es a character need Methuselah-level vampiric Disciplines to stake his claim on the underworld? More likely, several levels of Influence and the appropriate Abilities would be sufficient. don't go overboard assigning an antagonist's power level as per his motivation. Make antagonist characters powerful enough to have are asonable eqectation of achieving their goals; don't stack powers upon powers to make the villain's victory a sure thing. Players deserve a fighting chance to overcome their adversary, after all. That's where the action and drama in any good story comes from. The contest has to be close and always in question until the very end, otherwise you won't be able to maintain the players' characters' interest. ## OUT-Of- CHARACTER MOTIVATION

Popular opinion states that Storytellers create antagonists only to torment players. While that is an amusing benefit of the position, it is not the sole reason for including adversarial characters. Storytellers have their own motivations outside of the needs of the story for incorporating antagonists in play. Each setting in the World of Darkness works on many levels and has a rich background. It is impossible for a Storyteller to incorporate everything in a game, no matter how large the LARP is. how ever, antagonists can draw attention to certain aspects of a setting that may have been neglected up to that point. In a Laws of the Wild chronicle, for instance, spirit antagonists focus a player's mind on the Umbra as more than just an othenvorldy duck blind or shortcut, while Kinfolk antagonists deal with is sues of community and fellowship. When a the me has been missing from a game for too long, an antagonist can bring it back to the for efront. Furthermore, an antagonist can emphasize the core concepts with in a setting by introducing players to ideas and possibilities they wouldn't normally consider. Other than directing the flow of agame as a who le, antagonists can alter the course of individual players and characters. By setting up situations that for ce characters to make tough decisions, an antagonist can direct the development and direction of certain players' characters. If do ne well, players won't even realize that their characters are being set up to follow a particular path. Interacting with carefully selected types of antagonists can mold a player's behavior too. Given the option of but ting heads against an antagonist or taking a less attractive but easier route to success, most players choose the easy way out. Guiding players isn't always a desirable option, but it can become necessary when they're about to perform an act that would disrupt the game for everyone else. Some players chafe at any type of restraint or scripting of events, but it goes on all the time with players being none the wiser. Guidance and scripting are out-of-game keys to preventing long-running games from degenerating into chaos, and antagonists are excellent in-game tools for do ing so. Antagonists are also good devices for introducing new, misused or unused system mechanics into a game. Having an antagonist exploit a game mechanic promotes the system in question and make her more difficult to defeat by conven-

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL tional methods. Virtue Tests, for example, are new to many Laws of the Night games. An antagonist who watches a chronicle's vampire characters, learns the ir habits and sore spots, the n uses that information to play with the vampires' minds in hopes of inciting self-destructive frenzies would present the system to players by for cing the m to use it. Knowledge and understanding of the se rules will the n spread slowlyuntil they are commonknowledge. Given time, playerswillcome to recognize the se unfamiliar systems, freeing Narrators to work on other aspects of the game. The only caveat about using antagonists in game to pursue out-of-game motivations is to do so responsibly. While it is fair to plague a mage character with the persistent attentions of an Amalgam of Technocrats when he's going crazy shooting fireballs around in public with no regard for safety or secrecy, it's not fair to create antagonists that hound a particular character just because you think his player's a jerk. Even if that player is a jerk, it's still not fair to pick on him. It's also a bad idea to punish players' characters with inordinately powerful bad guys because you think the players are playing the ir game the 'wrong' way. Always be fair when using in-game antagonists for out-of-game reasons. ## BACKGROUND

After determining the character's motivation, it's time to begin laying out the particulars. Antagonists are people too, and they deserve to have as much attention lavished on them as any player's character. What's tricky about this stage of creating an antagonist is that it seems to fall out of sequence. You should determine the antagonist's goal (i. e., his motivation) first so you'll know where to put him in the story. the n, you have to go buck and create a background that logically leads up to the character's present state of mind. A detailed background is key to making the character appear realistic. It's the foundation on which everything about the antagonist is based. The background shapes the motivations, tactics, attitudes and appearance of the antagonist. with out a background to tie all of the se sections together, the villain won't be muchof acharacter at all. Players won't be able to understand how their foe has developed if he's just sprung half-for med from you r mind into the game. If players can't understand their opponents, they certainly will not relate to them or be able to interact with them in the meaningful, memorable ways you intend. What's more, the person playing the antagonist will be lost with out a good sense of what made the character what he is. ## TACTICS

When you're plotting out what role an antagonist will play, you also need to specify the ways an antagonist will pursue her goals. An antagonist can be confrontational or subtle. She can take the hands-on approach or work through lackeys behind the scenes. The tactics a character uses depends on her motives, her targets and especially her abilities. An apostate troll is not going to walk into a sidhe baron's court and start randomly blasting away at the courtiers with twin Colt.45s just so he can send everyone back home to Arcadia. He'd know that that is no way to accomplish his goal successfully. Define clearly the risks an antagonist will take in pursuit of her motives. Antagonists don't work in a vacuum either. Who are they will ing to deal with and what can they of fer potential all ies? do es the antagonist need a clear victory, or is partial success acceptable? Try also to figure out what opposition the protagonists in you r story will provide the antagonist. Every good villain has contingency plans for the day his schemes run awry. Assassins prepare multiple escape routes in the event that one is compromised. Lawyers prepare multiple arguments against one another when they battle in court. Technocrat agents study their enemies' SOPS and arm the mselves accordingly. Put you rself in the mind of you r antagonist and figure out what sort of friction he can reasonably expect from those who are likely to stand in his way. the n prepare him to face that friction to the best of his ability. (You should also consider out of game what friction you r antagonist character will face from the players the mselves. Will they be resentful of being beaten on occasion by a more powerful foe? Are certain players likely to shoot first and ask questions later, thus shafting you r grand scheme before it begins? Will they accuse you of picking on the m? Take all the se considerations into account when you're making up an antagonist so you'll be prepared for the players' response. don't be afraid to send an antagonist into game just because the players won't like it -they're not supposed to like being challenged in pursuit of their goalsbut use you r antagonists responsibly so that everyone can still have fun.)

## p RES e NTATI o N

One of the most overlooked components in creating an antagonist is the presentation. The performance of those playing the antagonist is generally given little thought. how ever, poor attention to the acting details can be the do wnfall of an otherwise great adversary. When players meet their opponent for the first time, they're not going to see the hours you spent creating his background and motivations. The players are not going to know about the nefarious plots set against the m. All they'll have to go on is the first impressions the new character makes. The word 'the atre' wasn't inserted into the title of the game system accidentally, after all. With the proper amount of practice, several tools can help convey a convincing Performance. Two of the most important tools that are of ten overlooked are the character's voice and his mannerisms. Start with the voice. By choosingavoice, the antagonist has akeyfeature that distinguishes it from other characters. Speak in a higher or lower tone. Add a for eign accent if it's appropriate. Other than the sound of the voice, the way one speaks is of ten not iceable. No one speaks perfect English, French or German for that matter unless he has a reason for paying attention to his verbal grammar. A person that has lived in the inner city will of ten have adifferent sentence structure and vocabulary than a character from suburbia. Think about a character's background and consider how his life experiences make his voice distinctive. Paying attention to characters' mannerisms is another facet of acting. do es the character have a limp or other physical discrepancy from the norm? do es she twitch when she gets nervous or pace when she's for ced to wait? Did that limp the maniacal hunter walks with come from his first confrontation with a rampaging monster? Is that why he hunts monsters in the first place? do es that vampire smoke cigarettes like and rew Dice Clay because he thinks it's cool or because do ing so reminds him of the one comedian who's still able to make him laugh since his violent embrace? Even a character's most minor quirks come from somewhere, and making them not iceable makes the character's the mselves

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL memorable and real. What's more, some quirk or odd habit might just holc key to defeating the antagonist in the end. ## GUIDELINES

If you're not portraying the antagonist you've created, make sure to sit d with the player or Narrator taking on the role and sketch out some guide11 Guidelines should be simple, one-sentence explanations on how to rea( common situations, and the se explanations should all be grounded in character's history and motivation. While the re's really no wrong way 1 player to play a protagonist character, an unprepared player can defin portray an antagonist character incorrectly. If you have specific out-of-g plans for what you want an antagonist to accomplish, make sure you spell t out to the person portraying the character for you. While the idea of maintai strict control of a LARP is patently ludicrous, you should certainly take proper steps to keep it moving in the right general direction. ## S TATI STI c s

Once you've gone to all the preceding trouble, declaring the statistics fo antagonist should now be relatively easy. All of the previous steps in creation1 built up to this point. The general power level, techniques, experiences motivations of the character outline the stats. All that is left is to have t explicitly written do wn on a character sheet. As far as this aspect of antagc creationgoes, you can check inanyhws of... book's Character Creationcha

With so many steps in the creation process, it may seem if buildin antagonist takes a lot of work. Antagonists aren't characters that can be wri in a couple minutes. they're a precious resource requiring a large investme time and ingenuity. An antagonist is a long-term character that can hope appear in several stories or many game sessions with in a single story. Y preparation and effort, some truly insidious fiends can be concocted, as lasting characters that will carve a niche in their troupe and electrify a g 2

## ALABAMA

Kindred of the Shadows; Auburn, AL boudrej@mail. auburn. edu Shadows of Vulcan; Birmingham, AL

Sarah Riggs, coordinator@shadowsofvulcan. com

## ALASKA

Ivory Masque; Anchorage, AK glitter\_boy@hotmail. com Nox ad Infinitum; Fairbanks, AK fsdck@aurora. alaska. edu

## ARIZONA

Paraiso de Espinas (Paradise of Thorns); Phoenix/Tucson, AZ

Jonni Crowell-Griffith, Salvjedora@aol. com (520)722-2688

Phoenix By Night; Phoenix, AZ Wm. R. Szabo Il, wrszabo@asu. edu http://www. public. asu. edu/-jamesb/pbn/

## ARKANSAS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR

Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870)931-0959

## CALIFORNIA

Moonlight Masquerade; Marysville, CA Jennifer you ng, kaidin@syix. com

## LARP EVENTS

## EVENT HORIZON: UPCOMING

I bet you can think of what stateyou live inmuch more quickly than you can think of what region of the country you live in. Hence the new for mat for this section. Why is it that the best ideas always come to you on the way out? ## UNITED STATES

## VAMPIRE EVENTS

Labyrinth of Crying Shadows(Sabbat Game); Sacramento, CA Adam Abramson, vallombrosa@hotmail. com Baptism of Fire; San Diego, CA Maggie Mac do nald, maggie5@home. com (619)425-1587 http://www. larp. com/vespasian

## COLORADO

Ground Zero; Colorado Springs, CO Travis Page, Darkholme@kktv. com (719)328-0605

Dread Noctune; Denver, CO

Mark Phillips/David Sutton, gm@dreadnocturne. dwarf. or g

## fLORIDA

Ft. Lauderdale; Ft. Lauderdale, FL Print Error@mindless. com House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

## VI5H035

Night's Children; Atlanta, GA Jason Norred, hemlock@mindspring. com http://larp. digitribe. or g Athens by Night; Athens, GA Storyteller List: abn-st@listserv. uga. edu Macon by Night; Macon, GA Shonda Slaughter, Lucinda Wst@aol. com http://www. cityofshadows. or g

## ILLINOIS

The Redemption Chronicles; Edwardsville, IL floodrk@earthlink. net

## INDIANA

Crimson Facade; Indianapolis, IN Paul M. Starr, tophat@indy. net

(317)466-9064

## KANSAS do minion of Solitude;Topeka,KS

Jeffery P. Harrington, harri999@geocities. com

<a id="vbn: clan: followers of set: followers-of-set:3308ac0b"></a>

## Lo

New or leans Nightfall; Mark Leberecht, FrostC -,,,.,,,......,, (504) 943-9814

## M ABY LAN D

Ray of Blood; Baltimore, MD Ed Adelsbergermailto: edla@erols. com, edla@erols. com 1 i 1/ 1 1: t 1. I kitae Neternus; Hyattsville, MU The Most Deadly Game; Baltimore, MD Joseph Palser, palserj@columbia. aim-smart. com TowsonLARP; Baltimore, MD

MASSACHUSETTS House of the Crescent Moon; Boston, MA giovanni@c ybercom. net Severed Sun; Boston, MA Sean do nnelly (617) 576-1097 (617) 656-2891

## MISSOURI

Coterie of the Crimson Night; St. Louis, M O Jamie Schneider, jaclon@juno. com (314) 837-3640

Impiorum Pecatta ('Sins of the Damned'); Warrensburg, MO

Storyteller: Jason Hibdon, eugee@cyberjunkie. com http://www. cyberjunkie. com/eugee

## NEBRASKA

Ebon Seraph; Omaha, NE davosburgh@aol. com

## NEVADA

Blood Moon Social Club; Las Vegas, NV

(702) 877-1813 http://www. bloodmoonsocialclub. com

## N o a T H CAROLINA

Libertas Aetema; Charlotte, NC

Tim Harris, harrist@cs. winthrop. edu

## O H I O

Blood Masks: Cincinnatus By Night; Cincinnati, OH Brian-Joseph Baker, Elomae@aol. com 513-777-7778

Dayton: Valley of the Shadow; Dayton, OH

Lee Highfield, schlgrmstr@aol. com 937-222-2330

Stake in the Heartland 11; Northeast OH

A Ryan S. Cope, cedric@neo. rr. com (330) 923-4483

## O R E ~ O N

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Jr. edu T Zity, OR the atre &lt; Kewi-Cec r. edu Dark Salem; aaiem, UK om the Chylde@aol. com

House of the Unknown; Pittsburgh, PA y B N N SYLVAN IA cam@and rew. cmu. edu Mudge Lounge; Pittsburgh, PA cam@and rew. cmu. edu

SOUTH CAROLINA Blood Moon; Charleston, SC Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmaiI. com Charlestonus Ab Noctum; Charleston, SC Ian Retts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com Eclipsed Moon; Charleston, SC Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmaiI. com

Shades of Pale Society; Chattanooga, TN

Laura Middleton, shades@larp. com (423)876-4561

## TEXAS

Bryan/College Station; Bryan/College Station, TX Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamu. edu Garden of Thorns; Clear Lake, TX wesley\_ooc@juno. com Midnight Rose; Clear Lake, TX prefect@texas. net House of the Eternal Rose; Clear Lake, TX prefect@texas. net DFWVLARP; Dallas/for t Worth, TX ex\_mutants@hotmail. com Legio Noctem; Dallas, TX Billy Lucas, will iamlucas@juno. com (972)788-1895 Eighth Legion; Dallas, TX James Potter, kingsnight@hotmail. com (972)788-1895 Central TexasLARP; Killeen/Temple, TX D. R. Hood, Pangea@vvm. com (254)947-1339

## UTAH do main of Mountain Shadows; Provo,UT Nikki Mc Coriston,N.Burton@m.cc.utah.edu (801)363-3959

## VIRGINIA

Club Seraphim; Norfolk, VA club\_seraphim@hotmail. com http://www. angelfire. com/va/Club Seraphim Seraphim Saloon; Norfolk, VA club\_seraphim@hotmail. com http://www. angelfire. com/va/Club Seraphim

## was HINGTON

Dark Necropolis; Kitsap, WA mrdeath@u. was hington. edu Ruby Rain Society; Mountlake, WA Tracy Soldan, tarot01@juno. com All Seattle Camarilla-run games seattledc@hotmail. com http://www. lovelys. com/seattlecam The Outlands; South King County, WA Christopher Buser, Buserc@mindspring. com 425-687-8093 Tacoma; Tacoma, WA sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728 Dark Tears; Walla Walla, WA annapuma@hotmail. com was HINGTON DC The Dark Capital do main Chris Herr, mephis@juno. com (703)273-5530 Abigail Moore Shoemaker, ams@gwis2. circ. gwu. edu

Shadows on the Mall; was hington, DC http://members. aol. com/dellacruz/SotM/Index. html

## WEST VIRGINIA

Das Dae Mar; State Capitol Complex, WV Wachu DancR@aol. com

GAROU

ALASRA

Olde Guard; Anchorage, AK Tom Alexander, nightstalker@customcpu. com

## ARIZONA

Rage Against the Darkness; Tempe, AZ Collin Toohey, Cybertec@cyberdude. com

(602)942-4994

Song of Sonora; Tucson, AZ Kevin LynchII, KWLynch@aol. com (520)722-2688

## ARKANSAS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, AR Tom Mc Farland, thomasmc@fastdata. net (870)931-0959

## COLORADO

Knights of Rage; Colorado Springs, CO

Dan Page, all mity Bob@aol. com (719)447-0399

## FLORIDA

House of the Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL

Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

## NEW YoRR

Apocalypse Rochester; Rochester NY

Chris Manos, cmanos@worldnet. att. net

## NO53HO

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu

SOUTH CAROLINA

Onyx Illuminatus; Charleston, SC lan Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com

## TERAS

Bryan/College Station; Bryan/College Station, TX Ken Reinertson, khr7057@unix. tamu. edu Fourth Tower Falling; Dallas, TX Matt Ragan, matt \_ragan@hotmail. com

(972)788-1895

## was HINGTON the atre of Roses;Battleground,WA Kwei-Cee Chu, kc@csua.berkeley.edu

Ruby Rain Society; Edmonds, WA Tracy Soldan, tarot01@juno. com Tacoma; Tacoma, WA sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728

## was HINGTON DC

The Sept of the Awakening; was hington DC Mindy will iams, terhunepayson@juno. com

## OTHERS

## CALIfORNIA

Sacramento by Night; Sacramento, CA www. Justicar. net Sena Wakeland, Celeste. d@mailcity. com United San Diego; San Diego, CA Dennis"Ttistan"Hanson, do llphynn@aol. com Imagination Shop the ater Guild Fridays: Sacramento, CA Alternate Saturdays: Santa Cruz, CA Sundays: Santa Rosa, CA Pete Magnetti, is TG\_MAIN@hotmail. com

(916)369-6948

## CONNECTICUT

East of the River, Venon, CT D. Scott Stewart, storyteller@eotr. or g

Macon Twilight the atre: Londinium; Macon, GA http://www. chaos-enterprises. com/mrt/mtt. html mtt@chaos-enterprises. com

## INDIANA

Tales of the Nomad Storyteller; Elkhart, Indiana P. O. Box1841, MishawakaIN,46546

Jedediah Walls: dej\_llaws@yahoo. com

## UNSPECIFIEDAND MIXED GAMES)

## KANSAS

Twilight Masquerade; Wichita, KS twilightmask@yahoo. com

## MAINE

Dark Carpathia; Portland, ME http://home. maine. rr. com/darkcarpathia/darkcarp. html

## MICHIGAN for tress of the Mind''s Eye;Lansing,MI Aaron Ledger, ledgeraa@pilot.msu.edu (517)372-1452

## OHIO

Of Shadow&amp; Light; Cincinnati, OH Brian-Joseph Baker, bakebjb@email. uc. edu (513)777-7778

## or EGON

More Than Night; Portland, OR (Independent game that sometimes playtests upcoming supplements) Bruce Baugh, bruce-baugh@sff. net Trails End Troupe; Salem, OR

Coordinatrix@hotmail. com

## TERAS

Crimson Dawn; Amarillo, TX Crimson\_Dawn\_LARP@excite. com (806)358-8530

## VIRGINIA

Night Falls; Falls Church, VA www. nightfalls. com Ian James, ian@nightfalls. com

## was HINGTON

Nox Imperium; Longview, WA katzmeow@kalama. com

## GAMES AROUND THE WORLD
- ·Camarilla Cambridge; Cambridge, England
- and reas Beck, pooka@globalnet. co. uk +44(0)1223503674
- Vampire LARP; Cambridge, England Scott Sommerville, some@globalnet. co. uk
- ·Garou LARP; Darlington, England Jonnikiss@hotmail. com
- ·Mage LARP; Darlington, England
- Jonnikiss@hotmail. com
- ·Vampire LARP; Darlington, England
- Jonnikiss@hotmail. com
- ·Vampire LARP; Greenwich, England David you ng, david\_young@smokeandmirrors. freeserve. co. uk
- Mage LARP; Hampshire, England
- Grim@postmort. demon. co. uk
- ·Vampire LARP; High Wycombe by Night
- Contact Ritch or Barry +44(0)1494450570
- Vampire LARP; London, England
- Angus Abranson, angus@cubicle7. freeserve. co. uk +44（0)1813434960
- Vampire LARP; Manchester, England Kyne Brooker, Mfnx6kab@fs1. art. man. ac. uk
- Changeling LARP; Reading, England Robert Baker-Self, Robert@fiddlers-green. demon. co. uk
- Vampire LARP; Reading, England
- Robert Baker-Self, Robert@fiddlers-green. demon. co. uk
- ·Vampire LARP; Stafford, England Ian Dickson, ian. dickson@gecm. com
- ·Changeling LARP; Stoke, England Alan Brumpton, Finn@mcmail. com
- ·Garou LARP; Stoke, England
- Alan Brumpton, Finn@mcmail. com
- ·Mage LARP; Stoke, England Alan Brumpton, Finn@mcmail. com
- ·Vampire, LARP; Stoke, England Alan Brumpton, Finn@mcmail. com
- ·VampireLARP; Wakefield, England Josie Murtagh, Josie@imhome. freeserve. co. uk
- Bologna by Night; Bologna, Italy(Vampire Camarilla LARP) Erminio Serio, bigcobra@tin. it
- ·Fiat Nox; Rome, Italy (Vampire LARP) fiatnox@monrif. net +39(0)3384753403. - ·Paradiso Perduto ("Paradise Lost"); Rome, Italy Marco Visconti, azrael@dada. it +39(0)3387045747
- Vampire LARP; Edinburgh, Scotland Kevin Drugan, kevin@gehenna. prestel. co. uk
- ·Vampire LARP; Glasgow, Scotland David Evans, misty@mudhole. spodnet. uk. com

An up-to-date Calendar of all Dutch games and European Camarilla games can befound athrtp://www. troy. demon. nl/vampire

## WHAT I HAVF LFARNFD by you rs Truly

## TRENDSAND OBSERVATIONS the firstthing Inoticedwas that certain behaviorswere endemictothe world of LARPing.Iverealizedover the pasttwoyearsthat the wayweplay storytelling chronicles and the commonality that arises says a lot about us. ## Crossover Lunacy: Lunacy abounds when crossover is atissue inalive-actionchronicle.Ageoldenemiesmeet, for getallabouttheirdifferences(for somereason)and work together to a.) defeat the ancient evil plaguing both the ir peoples or b.) maintain apaper-thin treaty between the irkind.Sometimes the for mer leads tothelatter in the post-storywrap-up.you knowthose Garouinyourvampire chronicle?The ones everyone call "Garou"instead of were wolves or even lupines?The oneswho aren't all owed tokill anyvampires lest they be hunted do wnbythevampireswhovastlyoutnumberthem?they'reevidence of this crossover lunacy. Anotherbrand of crossover lunacyinLARPchroniclesis the emissary syndrome.This syndrome accounts for the tissue-thin rationalefor why a characterin aspecifictypeofgame has knowledgeof some or all of the other supernatural denizens of the World of Darkness.Thinkof a character saying this:"I lived among the Garou for years after my embrace into Clan Gangrel. Now Iworkwiththe lupinestoridtheworldof the Wyrm's influence.Let me talk to that Get of Fenris for you, my prince.That character is an emissary. Soistherogue Tzimiscewho'spackedupthewagonsandjoined the Camarilla inanewcity.Soisthe Gangrel who'sleft the Camarilla and who nowrunswith you r were wolf pack. Crossoveralsoleads totheinevitablesceneof explanationwhen two supernatural creaturesof different types meet and begin discussing the why s and where for es of what it means to bewhat they are.Basically, you

D see one character trying to nutshell the essence of his kind for another character with no frame of reference what soever. The other character usually understands right away, and they move along. A variant of the crossover explanation scene involves the emissary (qv) explaining to members of his own people the alien ways of the people to who m he is an emissary. An even stranger twist on this scene is that of the occult scholar who can explain the alien ways of any [World of Darkness] culture because he's 'read about them before.'

## The Squad: This phenomenon has many names -the who op squad, the beat squad, the gack squad, the hit squad -but it has one real meaning. What happens when one uses a squad in LARPing is that one character has a beef with another character, so he rallies a group of like-minded thugs to his cause. Having so rallied, the beefer the n leads his thugs to where ver the beefee i s (preferably under the power of Cloak the Gathering, or through a convenient Umbral shortcut), and he [and they] proceed to whip the ever-loving crap out of the beefee. The resulting nightmarish mass-combat scene takes about two hours to play out (depending on who jumps in on who se side), but the in-game time the scene takes is about 15-45 seconds. ## The Ratio: Supernatural creatures vastly outnumber the mundane denizens of the World of Darkness. Especially in small towns and college campuses. for tunately, though, the se creatures maintain the ir intricate web of secrecy that veils the m from prying eyes. If the re are any. ## The Umbra: I'm not sure why, but the Umbra is the most important aspect of the world as we know it, no matter what kind of M E T LARP is going on. It is a protected, impregnable have n. It's a mystical gym locker for important things. It's a great back do or into any place on Earth. It cuts travel time radically. It's the spy's ultimate hidey hole. It's even full of biddable, naive spirits who will pretty much do what you ask as long as you give the m a unit of supernatural power. The only bad thing about the Umbra is that unknowable, destructive monstrosities seem to live the re. And those monstrosities want not hing more than to cross over to the physical world and wreak havoc. ## Villains: The choice of villains that appear in LARPs say an awful lot about folks who play LARPs as well. LARP bogeymen include: Setites. Tremere. Sabbat. Spectres. 'Wyrm creatures.' Black Spiral Dancers (who m many right-minded Gangrel have hunted in the past). Fomori. Umbral monstrosities. Demons. Setites. Men in Black. Iteration X cyborgs. The Inquisition (unless the characters are supernatural creatures who work for the Inquisition in the ir search for Golconda/ Transcendence/ Ascension and have slipped in under the radar). Or any weird mixture of any/all of the preceding. The use of the se villains of ten has no relation to the LARP venue in which they appear, oddly enough. Vampires of ten fight -and call the m -BSDs. All Garou (not just the Silent Striders) are particularly of fended by Setites. the re's

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL chronicle that a Sabbatvampire can't accomplish10 timesbetter.All of the supernaturaldnizensof the Wo Daremonstersbutsomemonstersaremore monstrousthan others. ## The Time Cycle: Conveniently, all of the importanteventsinthe Worldof Darknessoccur onaweekly, biweekly, monthlyoryearly scale.not hingmuchhappensinthe "do wntime" in between. ## Common Equipment: No self-respecting LARPcharacter leaves the house for a night of social interactionwithout someorall of the followingequipment: Sword-can e.Chain-mail vest.Cellular(or PCS)phone.Trench coat. Mirrorshades.Desert Eagle.50pistol.Katana.Slug of silverforbullets or bladecoating.Vesselof Transference item(and everyone knowswhat"you feelacold chillmeans).A d10 on which Principle Focus of Vitae Infusion has been cast. "Occult tome."Sawed-of f shotgun.Armor. Stake (or bandoleer the reof). ## Dialogue: "We must put aside our respective people's age-old differences and join our for ces againstthisadversaryfrom the spiritworld—which you rpeoplecall the Umbra, if Iremembercorrectly.Ifwedonotdothis, wearedestinedtofail, for we can not standagainstourfoeseparately.For, as Benjamin Franklin said, We must standtgethrstwalang sparatly

Think of every self-important politician trying to soundwell-educated. Thinkofeveryhigh-schoolplayyoudidn'tactuallyenjoy. Unfortunately, many LARPers with powerful or very old characters talk this way: That is tosay, the yoverdoit. you knowyou'veheardpeopleorate thus. You may even be guilty of it you rself. ## Turnover: Princes/elders/nobles/Hierarchswhorise topower inthe courseof a live-action chronicle are in noway capableofmaintaining a power base. theirreign usually lasts a fewmonths/weeks/years before they're castdownby some disgruntledfaction growingright under theirnoses. Peopleparticipatingin squads are of tenresponsiblefor this rapid turnover of the noble elect. Power blocs of voting second-tier authority figures are equally guilty. when the eventsofan out-of-control LARPinevitablybecomeridiculous—say the Brujahhave blown up the registrar'sbuilding on the local college campus one too many times—some form of Storyteller justice occurs. of ten deliverance of said justiceinvolves a justicardescendingfrom on high to"clean up the rampant breeches [sic] of the Masquerade." Incarnae can appearandscoldwayward Garouwho should beBSDsbutfor the leniency of the Storytellers. Other measures involve"unkillable"Inquisitors(or hunters or imbued hunters), the involvement of the National Guard or crashingan asteroid into the LARP'scity setting in or der to bring about a"reset."Some LARPs even survive such heavy-handed treatment and growintomuchmorereasonablechronicles. ## Justice: ## LESSONS

And what have I learned from the se observations? Actually, I've learned quite a lot. (No, I did n't just write all that in or der to verbally lambaste the loyal readers who've been helping pay my salary the se last two years.)

The first is to never be too critical, especially in this 'industry.' I first came at the Journal with the perspective that White Wolf is right, and other people are wrong. If somebody played the game differently than the way we recommended in a book, that person was wrong. If somebody ran a game that may as well have been a dungeon-crawl of undead superheroes with fangs, that person was wrong too. Basically, anyone who deviated in their gameplay from the 'can onical' decrees of the home of fice (all in the name of villainous and illiterate 'fun') was a loser and a goob who deserved to be ostracized from the hut m o d that is the gaming community. for tunately, I finally came around to realize that that attitude was the worst sort of undeserved snobbery. The people who are playing with our materials thus are still the people who are buying those materials. To say that they're wrong implies that they're dumb. And it do esn't take a team of rocket-scientist philosopher kings to figure out that calling you r customers dumb is a bad idea. If they (or you, or I frankly) diverge from the printed text in a way that makes a White Wolf game more fun, who are we behind the desks at this of fice to say that that's wrong?That's the worst kind of corporate jack-assery, and it's no basis for developing a quarterly magazine. with out that built-in condescension working against me, it's easier to see the good that's hiding behind the otherwise judgmental observations that opened this essay. It's easy to see that people approach LARPs with basically good intentions and reasonably good ideas. The biggest thing you not ice is that LARPers want, expect and even demand a unified World of Darkness setting. You can tell it from the crossover lunacy and the scenes of explanation and the choices of villains. The people who buy our products, we can't deny, don't usually read one game line and one game line only. they see how the varied pieces fit together from each game line, regardless of that line's cloistered perspective, and they expect their characters to live in an inclusive setting. Granted, it's difficult to wrap one's mind around a world in which clockwork brass robot constructs shared land with blood-sucking undead lords of the night, but that sort of cross-brand inconsistency is more the exception to the rule. People have been after us for years to admit that the World of Darkness is a singular supernatural melting pot, and they've got a point. The other big revelation I've made is that LARPers generally have a strong desire to be heroes and do what's right. While they're of ten cartoonish caricatures rather than characters in their own right, LARP villains are almost universally bad. they're drug-dealers or gun-runners or corrupt bureaucrats or Hell-bound magicians or devil-spawn the mselves, and they must be destroyed for the good of the community, or even the entire world. Common beat-squad rallying causes are those of freedom and justice; not hing gets a group of biddable head-thumpers together like the promise of a relief from tyranny. While many methods characters in LARPs engage in are extreme (such as short-range ambushes or sniper assaults), the core of motivation is usually a noble one. Plus, LARPers are some of most dedicated adherents to the concept of multi-cultural diversity you could hope to find. You see evidence of it in every Gangrel Wyrm Foe and Tzimisce antitribu and Kinfolk ghoul vassal to the local sidhe lord. It makes sense to LARP players that a reasonable explanation of oneself and a trustworthy practice of what you preach will gain one the trust and eventual respect of any culture -no matter how opposed to you r own it may be or iginally. While that hope may not prove true reliably in our realworld experience, LARP players believe in it because that's the way they feel. That's a special kind of idealism that it do es a heart good to see. It helps me remember why 1 got hooked up with the gaming crowd in the first place waaaaay back when. ## OTHER LESSONS the se last several lessons are the ones I've learned while do ing this job. Consider them a peek behind the curtain, and keep them in mind if you should ever decide to seek glorious and gainful employment in gaming design and publication. - Gaming is not an industry. No, despite the not or iety and acclaim you can gain by becoming a public figure in gaming, gaming will always be a niche of a greater industry. As such, the concomitant pay one makes reflects that status. - Freelance game writers kap at the opportunity to miss their deadlines. If our accounting department all owed me to supplement my paycheck with the penalty fees that are written into every White Wolf freelance contract for turning in work late or incomplete, I'd be sitting on a golden La-2-Boy watching a 70-inch projection screen television and lighting my duty-free Cuban cigars with rolled-up giant panda pelts while bellowing for Elian Gonzales and the 'Whazzup!?' guys to make me a sammich. - The writer-developer-editor triangle is not a self-supporting mechanism. It is, instead an autocannibalistic mess that somehow manages to work despite its own best efforts. Each point in the triangle is convinced of its own intellectual and creative superiority, as well as the relative incompetence of the others. Unless the others happen to be right and able to prove it. Having been a part of each vertex of this triangle, I can state for a fact that this is unequivocally the case. - It i s hard to b e topical and clever in a quarterly publication that gets to stores approximately six months after it kaves you r hands. It's also pretty hard to coordinate a coherent Event Horizon calendar on that schedule, as I'm sure you've not iced. - A you ng editor with only three months of experience who's thrust into the position of deweloping a quarterly magazine should not 'contribute' his own fiction to that magazine. Hindsight is a painful teacher. I apologize for 'A Position of Strength' and 'Any Mother's Child.' No, really. - You have to settle sometimes. No writer or artist or typesetter or editor (or developer) lives up to you r ideals all the time. for tunately, that's okay, because this isn't exactly brain surgery or UN translating. Usually when you 'settle' for a finished product, it's every bit as good as you r ideal despite how different the two are. - All things being equal, you can't really ask for a better job than do ing what you love for enough money to live on. Even with out the duty-free Cuban cigars and the sammiches. ## SPECIAL than KS

I can't end this with out giving credit (and m y heartfelt gratitude) where it's due. My special than ks go out to the se folks: Richard Dansky

Jess Heinig

Cynthia Summers

Peter Woodworth

The Mind's Eye the atre Journal wouldn't be what it is with out all the work you four have put into it from the start. Others have come and gone to help keep the Journal aloft, but it wouldn't have gotten of f the ground with out you. It's been an honor and a pleasure, and the fact that the Journal is going away despite you r fine efforts thus far royally stinks. And lest I for get, let me than k you folks who have been buying and reading the Journal all this time. You make the effort and the headache and the stress and the craziness worth it when all is said and do ne. I'm sorry it has to end, but I'm glad for the time we've had.