/e

## Iheatre JOURNAL

BECAUSE THE MIND'S EYE NEVER BLINKS

## CREDITS

Authors: Jess Heinig, Carl Bowen, Lindsay Woodcock, Jennifer Kellam, Richard E. Dansky, Peter Woodworth, Duncan Wyley

Developer: Carl Bowen

Editor: Lindsay Woodcock

Art Director: Rich Thomas

Photographer: Laura Robles Other Photos Provided bythe Camarilla and One Worldby Night

Front and Back Cover Design: Pauline Benney Layout and Typesetting: Pauline Benney

## SPECIAL than KS

Jennifer"You'll see.. Hartshorn, for a much needed lesson in naivete. Mike"Dunce"Tinney, thoughweknow not why. Justin“Stud"Achilli. Ouch. That's all, just ouch. Fred"I was just singing a song about you"Yelk, for the change heinspired at the lastminute. Ken 'Snakes and Ladders' Cliffe, for that last bit of perspective. 0 1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction with out the written permission of the publisher is expressly for bidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascension and World of Darkness are reg735 PAIN NORTH B ~ D. SUITE 128 l H R K $ T ON, GA 30021 USA is tered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. were wolf the LZpocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, were wolf the Wild West, rrinity, Mind's Eye the atre Journal, Oblivion, The Shining Host and The Changeling Players Guide are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All: haracters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted b y White Wolf Publishing, Inc. The mention of or reference to any company or product in the se pages is not a zhallenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and the mes. All mystical md supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised. Check out White Wolf online at http://www. white-wolf. com; alt. games. whitewolf and rec. games. frp. storyteller PRINTED IN THE USA. BECAUSETHEMIND'SEYENEVERBLINKS

## TABLEOFCONTENTS

1 8

7 2

| WORDEROMTHE DEVELOPER Anotefrommeonthepurposeandgoalsofthismagazineaswellaswhat | 4 toexpectherein. |
| THE CURRENT THINKING An opinion for umfrom Mind's Eye playerson is sues of interest. | 5 |
| DEADGUY SPEAKS A column from Rich Dansky, for merMET developer, on pretty much what ever he feels like talking about. | 8 |
| the EVOLUTION 0 E MIND'S EYETHEATRE A glance athow the systemsand world of Mind's Eyehave changed and better with time. | 14 gotten |
| AT HOMEWITHTHE CAMARILLA The inside dirt on what the Camarilla fan club is, where it camefromand it's all about, written by its own Director of Public Relations. | 1 8 what |
| IE ITIS BROKE Aguidetopullinganailingstorybackfrom the brink(or justover | 26 the edge)of disaster. |
| ONEWORLD Apiece in a similarvein as the Camarilla's, this time from insidethe One World by Night or ganization. | 28 |
| NUNNEHIEORTHE SHIN IN^ HOST who were thepeopleof Concordia beforethe settlerscame?Becomepart of world, or one of the people you rself, in you r Shining Host LARP chronicle. | 3 8 their |
| RAMPING Up AlookathowtotakethosefirstfatefulstepsindesigningyourownLARPchronicle. | 49 |
| EICTION:'A POSITION o E STREN~TH' by you rs Truly. | 56 |
| MAYDAY! PART I I: DEPLOYMENT The next segment of the first live-action storyline for Oblivion that will impact all of Stygia. | 66 |
| EREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS | 7 2 |
| EVENT HORIZON: UPCOMING LARP EVENTS | 76 |

T A B L E of CONTENTS

## WORD FROM THE DFVFLODFR

WELCOME TO THE

## Mind's sye T h e atre J o urnal! Welcome back, everybody, to the second is sue of the MET Journal. And for those of you who are new to the publication, let me take a second to acquaint you with just what you've got here. The Journal is a quarterly publication dedicated to filling in the gaps in you r White Wolf LARP environment. We of fer rules for new character types, or iginal storylines to work into you r chronicles, guides for keeping you r games under control and running smoothly and rules updates you won't find in any other Mind's Eye release. Plus, you'll find answers to the questions that have plagued you r chronicles (Why are so m n y Changeling birthrights changedinto Merits and Flaws in The Shining Host!), or iginal World of Darkness fiction and columns from those who've been the re (where ver the re is) and survived to tell the tale. The Journal is packed with facts and guides that expand upon what's published in the MET books. In this is sue, we have a chat with the spokespeople of two of the largest liveaction roleplaying or ganizations in the world, look into some of the legwork that goes into setting up a successful, long-running LARP chronicle and delve into the particulars of creating Nunnehi changelings for MET'S The Shining Host. And that's just a sample of what's in store for you here. We've also got an Oblivion adventure that will rock you r who le shadowed world, a look at how MET has changed since its inception and more. In future is sues, we'll look into one of Atlanta's own oldest and largest independent LARP or ganizations, ways to keep problem players under control, a word or two on the state of MET from Cynthia Summers (the Mind's Eye developer here) and anything else you might need to round out you r live-action chronicle. And you can help make the Journal even better. Send us letters on you r opinions about the state of live-action roleplaying today. Send us questions about the features and rules you see here and about the broken rules you might come across in different MET publications. Send us horror stories of games gone wrong and how you r players' characters fixed the m. We're interested in all aspects of live-action roleplaying, and we want to know what you think. Stick around. The Journal is on the cutting edge of the live-action genre; we've got something for everybody. And if we don't have it yet, let us know. We'll get it for you. Carl Bowen, Developer carlawhite-wolf. corn White Wolf Attn: Mind's Eye the atre Journal Developer 735 Park North Blvd, Suite 128 USA

Concept: Horror wears flannel pajamas with feeties! Appearance: Fuzzy slippers and/ or teddy bears. Need I say more? Natural Habitat: Cute Nutballs generally prowl the corridorsof agame to see and be seen. they do, to their credit, interact on a regular basis with other players. Unfortunately, most seem compelled to use accents straight out of The House at Pooh Comer when do ing so. not es: The Cute Nutball of ten bases her character around the regression motif, i. e., ''I was Embraced while watching Rugrats' or 'I may have been Embraced at age 38, but I really wanted it to happen while I was watching Rugrats.' Many of them are excellent roleplayers with in a very limited range. The problem is that Cute Nutballs tend to travel in packs (or perhaps to generate spontaneously), meaning that the incautious LARPer is liable to find himself knee-deep in what looks like vampiric daycare. Addendum: The occasional Cute Nutball eschews the pajamas look for schoolgirl outfits. The less said of the effect this has on the local pathetic lech population, the better. ## THE STORYTELLER'S S. 0. Quote: How much longer is this going to take? Umm, I'm the... Seneschal? Honey, what's a Nosefur Achoo, and why is it trying to get my phone number? Concept: If I actually spend my Saturday night do ing this, he owes me big time. Appearance: Completely and utterly bored. The blase expression generally changes to a look of sheer panic if it looks like one of those mutant freaks in black is going to come up and talk to her. Natural Habitat Anywhere but a LARP. With return visits, she risks conversion to her S. O.'s cape-flaunting ways, so she'll do everything in her power to make sure she never, ever comes back again. And yes, she's read Lysistraata. not es: She's a nice, normal human being with outside interests who's will ing to put up with her S. O.'s weird Vampire habit thingie what ever -once. I repeat: Once. Try to make her do it more than once and she evolves into a new species, the Storyteller's Ex. ## THE M. OCKER

Quote: T h i s is all so h e a n d path e t i c. Running around and premdmg you're uampires. You guys haw no soclal ski Us. Me? Oh, I'm going to go home and&amp; 'Resident Annoyance' for nine hotm snai Rfi t. Concept: He don't need no steeenkin' concept; he ain't playing. Appearance: The Mocker is dressed like most of the people playing in the game -at least, the ones with outcapes. theironyofthis generally escapes him. Natural Habitat: The Mocker hangs out where LARPers hang out when they're not playing, with in earshot but of ten no closer. He makes a point of claiming that he's standing upwind, just to be pushy about the who le thing. not es: The Mocker is of ten the larval form of the standard Player; he generally maintains Mocker status only so long as he do esn't actually bother to read the books or play the games he's making fun of. Once he gets dragged into putting his money where his mouth is, he either evolves or finds a new hobby. ## THE ONCEAND EUTURE AUTHOR

Quote: Actually, I think the rules for this stuff suck. I've written a better system, un d it's a vast improvement. Can you see it? Uh, no, I left it at home. In Montana. Really. Concept: Anything they can do, I'm sure I can do better when I get around to it. Appearance: The Once and Future Author is possibly the only species of MET player commonly found in tweeds and/ or mock turtlenecks. Sweaters are a good indicator, as are wire-frame glasses, but those are also signs of the Nerdy Tremere (who's an entirely different kettle of clove-smoking, bloodsucking fish). Natural Habitat The Once and Future Author is of ten found in the middle of a flock of you nger players, possibly even a nest of luckless Terrified Newbies. What he's do ing the re can best be described as 'holding court,' as he spins a web of his thoughts on rules modifications and ideas that he's sure would improve the game immeasurably. What those ideas actually are i s a bit harder to get out of him; he's just sure that what he's capable of coming up with is bound to be better. Oh, and check the local coffeehouse. He's the one in the comer with the laptop, playing Solitaire. not es: The Once and Future Author is careful to maneuver himself into delicately controlled situations. the se situations are designed to play up his knowledge of rules loopholes and all ow him the opportunity to pontificate about possible improvements. Normal, average roleplaying situations, how ever, tend to drive Once and Future Authors of f. ## THE MOMMY/DADDY PLAYER

Quote: So can I take that power? The other Storyteller said that it would b e OKif it were OK with you! *blink* *sad puppy eyes*

Concept: Plllleeeeeease can I have it? I'll be you r best friend! Appearance: The Mommy/ Daddy Player is capable of the most astonishing camouflageimaginable. Normallyheappearstobeanaverageplayer, but oncehegets alonewith a Narratoror Storyteller, heshedshisdisguiseand startswheedling shamelessly. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Natural Habitat: Under most circumstances, the Mommy/ Daddy Player mingles happily and innocently with the crowd. It's just abizarre combinationofevents that brings out his latent mutant powers and causes humanity to hate and fear him and send giant pink robots from the future to destroy his exclusive boarding school, and....... err..... umm. Where was I? Anyway, most of the time Mommy/ Daddy Players are perfectly cool, mingling with the roleplaying throngs around the m. It's just that occasionally, one catches sight of a power or Merit or some other neat gadget that another character has that is completely new to him. According to scientists, this triggers a physiological reaction that causes the M/D P to either swim up the will amette River and spawn or to start stalking the local Storyteller in hopes of comering her and begging permission to add the new power to his character sheet as soon a s possible. Under most circumstances, the Storyteller thus confronted sensibly avoids the decision and sends the M/D P of f with a bland 'If the other Storyteller says it's O K or some such. The fatal mistake the Storyteller makes in this instance is assuming that her counterpart is going to show some sort of common sense and bounce the M/D P on his ear a few times to see if any brain cells shake loose. Unfortunately, this is when the M/D P's cunning survival mechanism kicks in. Instead of going up to the second Storyteller with 'Well, Anne blew me of f when I asked for Master-Class Temporis,' he sneaks up on his prey with 'Anne said it was O K for me to have Master-Class Temporis if you said it was OK.' In many cases, the helpless second Storyteller is taken by surprise and gives assent, which concludes the cycle for the M/D P. He scurries back into play, and it's left to the Storytellers to figure out what the hell just happened the next time the entire game rewinds six hours. not es: All conversations with M/D Ps should include the word 'no' at least three times per sentence, more if possible. THE SCAMMER

Quote: So, want tog0 back to my place after the gum is werd talk about ourchmacters' refahhip? Concept: I'm awhat clan do those three women in the black dresses play?Toreador? OK, I'm a Toreador. Appearance: The Scammer of ten wears fake fangs, dark sunglasses, a white poofy shirt, pirate boots and a vest of some sort -unless the women in the game have demonstrated a preference for some other sort of raiment. In that case, all bets are of f. Natural Habitat: The Scammer is a migratory animal, following who mever captures his fancy around all night while attempting to involve her in his plotlines. Since most of those plotlines involve what can charitably be called Naked Coed Blood Bonding, the Scammer generally spends a lot more time on the prowl than do ing anything else. not es: The Scammer can generally be counted on to do what ever the most attractive woman in front of him at a given time tells him to do. The trick is A) to keep him from looking usefuland R) tobribe the objectofhis temporary obsession sufficiently to get her to use her influence over the Scammer in you r favor. at any other attractivewomen whilehe's still

Look on the bright side. If he weren't at the LARP, he might be dating you r sister. ## THE RULES LAWYER

Quote: It clearly states on page 34 of this mimeographed galley proof of is sue 4 of White Wolf Magazine that undercertaincircumstances, I can in fact rip out an Antediluvian's spleen just by lookingathimimploringly and sayingthephrase, 'you r mother dresses you funny.' You did n't know that? 1 thought everyone knew that. Concept: Who's got time for a concept when the re are rules to memorize? Appearance: The Rules Lawyer is of ten nattily attired, albeit never in a way to call attention to himself. of ten, he can be identified by the condition of the books he carries with him; pages with rules advantageous to his character are marked with tape flags or stickv not es. Insome extreme cases. the Rules

Lawyer re-binds his books for easier access or simply has them tattooed on his for earms so that he might literally bludgeon the opposition to death with the m. Natural Habitat: Existing on the fringes of the pack, the Rules Lawyer frequently tries to blend in with the rest of the game. He emerges only briefly to debate a ruling or call on an obscure optional rule, the n submerges back into the herd. The only way to is olate a Rules Lawyer is to challenge him deliberately. This can be do ne by making a call that contradicts some weird Risen-sluagh-kinfolk-using Mage-Spheres kind of rule that is near and dear to the Rules Lawyer's heart. do ing so causes the Rules Lawyer to burst from the pack in a frenzy of quotations and finger-pointing, which continues until the Storyteller either gives in (just to shut him up already) or has him shot with a tranquilizer dart. not es: The Rules Lawyer honestly believes that adherence to the rules -all of them -is the absolute best thing for the game. He just can't help it if he knows the rules better than anyone (and that of ten includes the authors and the developer, mind you) and puts that knowledge into play. Pity he can't find time to read the sections on giving characters personalities, but hey, something's got to give, right? the re are other recognizable types, of course: The Boffer Basher (who can't understand why everyone's upset at being clobbered with plumbing supplies in Elysium)-

## (Ahem, than k you, Rich. That will be quite enough. -Carl.)

-the Lone Fruitbat (who insists on playing Garou in a Vampire game, a vampire in an Oblivion gameora pooka pretty much at any time), the rare Wandering Twink(Igot64 points at this game lastweek and I wanted to spend the m—oh, the gamewas in Dubuque) and soon. for tunately, the se critterspopulation densityisinverselyproportional totheir recognizabilityfactorhreareonlyafewinagivengamebuthooboy, do they standout. but nowyouknowwhattolookfor, and, moreimportantly, what toavoid. have fun.. ## THF FVOLUTION OE MIND'S €Y€ TH€ATR€ by Jess Heinig

Eye the atre line, Jess oversaw the dewelopment of the Laws of the Hunt book as well as parts of Laws of the Wyld West. T h e M i n d ' s Eye the atre game line has changed quite a b i t ower the years, and it continues t o change as new Inhis tenureasthedeveloperof the Mind's rulesand updatesbecomenecessary to correct oversights, loopholes and errors. the Hunt: a look at the most current versions of ru l e s for Mind's Eye the atre and how they apply to all of the game l i n e s. This article isn't a n attempt to address specific cases -that's the purviewoftheFAQsection-but itdoestalkaboutsomechanges that have far-reaching effects on most, if not all, of the books for Mind's Eye the atre. If you've got t h i s article and a Mind's Eye the atre book, you should be playing the mmt current version of the game! this articlecoversthesamesortofbasesasthecolumnofthesame name in Laws of

## CHALLEN~ES

As described in the various Mind's Eye the atre books, a challenge involves a simple game of Rock-Paper-Scissors between two or more people. The victor wins the challenge and accomplishes his desired result; the loser fails in his attempt. In the event of a tie, challengers check their appropriate Traits. Thus, in a Mental Challenge, both participants check their number of Mental Traits, and the person with the most Traits wins. Use the current number of Traits! As a playerexpends Traits (losing them in challenges or activating powers), the character tires out, runs out of confidence and gets fatigued -eventually, even the most powerful character wears out. If both sides have the same number of Traits, the win goes to the defender, but both parties lose the Traits they bid. ## RETESTS

Several different factors all ow for retests, Abilities, overbids and special powers among the m. In general, though, retests all have the same effect. A retest can be called only when a player loses a test -i f you win a test in combat, you can not use you r Brawl Ability to retest and do the same thing again, for example, even when supernaturally compelled. When a retest is called, you lose the Trait(s) you bid in the initial test (mark them of f immediately) and the n perform a new test. If you lose the retest, you still lose the challenge. If you win, you still lose the initial Trait(s) you bid, but you win the challenge. In a tie, compare Traits as normal, but remember that you lose the Trait(s) you bid for the initial test. A retest called by use of an Ability expends the Ability automatically, regardless of the outcome of the test; if you fail to punch someone and call for a retest with Brawl, the Brawl Ability is expended automatically. Conversely, a retest called with an overbid do es not expend the overbid Trait automatically -you only lose the overbid Trait i f you lose the test. not e that calling an overbid requires only one Trait, even if you are injured or were otherwise for ced to bid more than one Trait on the initial test. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL

Arctest maybecanceledasdescribed in Lawsof the Hunt. Inacasewhereinan Ahilitybased retest is called by you r opponent, you may can cel his retest automatically if you have at least two more levels in that Ability than he do es. Thus, i f you r opponent calls for a Brawl retest in combat but has only one level of Brawl Ability, you may expend a level of the Brawl Ability to can cel his retest completely i f you have at least Brawlx 3. If y o u and you r opponent have the same amount of current Brawl Ability, or if you r current Ability i s less rhan you r opponent's (or not twolevelshigher), the nyoucannotcance1hisretest; you mustwaitforthe opponent's retest and the n expend a level of you r Ability for a retest of you r own (if the opponent's retest succeeds). Thus, with high levels of Ability, you can completely prevent a less skilled opponent from turning the tables on you. how ever, if you are evenly matched, the re is always achance for luck and a little bit of skill to intervene. not e that a can cellation maybedoneonlywithalike Abilityorpower: Ifanopponentcallsforaretestwith Bra w l, you must can cel it with you r own Brawl or Meke Ability, not with the Merit: Luck (for instance). A given source may be used as a retest only once on any particular challenge. A character with Brawl x 3 can not use Brawl multiple times for retests on a single challenge, but he could use Brawl followed by Luck. Certain powers end a challenge automatically, and no retests may be called after the use of such powers. ## MASS COMBAT

Mass combat involves multiple attackers assaultingone defender. Insuchcases, the first task is to determine who's attacking who m and how. The or iginal rules for mass combat, revised and elaborated here, make mass combat much more dangerous. Amass attackoccurswhenup tofive peopleassault one targetwithsimilarmethcds. Thus, if five people all attack one vampire (using swords, stakes and torches), they conduct one mass challenge. how ever, if different for ms of assault were used (a shotgun from one attacker but aspell from another) the n eachdifferent form of attack Physical, Mental or Social -would be handled as a separate challenge or mass challenge. In a mass challenge, the defender throws one symbol (rock, paper, scissors or aspecial symbol all owed by certain powers) while each attacker throws one symbol of his own in the samechallenge. Eachattackerbidsone Trait (or enough Traits toenteronechallenge), and the defender bids enough Traits to engage in challenges with every attacker; i f the defender has insufficient Traits, he may choose the attackers against who m he wishes to defend. The defender compares his symbol to every attacker at the same time, the n resolves each result simultaneously: Losing three tests and winning two causes the defender to lose three Traits and suffer all of the results of losing to the three victorious attackers. If the defender counterstrikes, he may choose to affect any one attacker who m he defeated in the mas challenge. Retests should also be made together, but each patty must bid enough Traits to cover all targets; thus, the two losing attackers in the previous example could bid one Trait each to retest, and the defender would have to bid two Traits to retest against them bth, resolving the retest as a second mass challenge. ## will POWER

Different Mind's Eye the atre books give different rules for what can and can't be do ne with will power Traits. The most consistent set of rulings to date is listed here, along with the reasons why certain changes have been made. - will power can be used to refresh all Traits in a single Attribute category (Physical, Social, Mental) once per category per session. - will power can grant are teston a Socialor Mentalchallenge, ifthe Storytellerfeels that will power would be appropriate to the challenge. Acharacter can not simply ignore the effects of such challenges with will power; that would nullify the use of many special powers ('I ignore you r Presence with a Trait of will power, the n hit you four times with claws.'). Similarly, certain challenges are not appropriate for expenditure of will power; a will power Trait should be used only on Mental and Social Challenges to resist influence or injury. 'I expend a will power Trait to retest you r Auspex challenge against my Obfuscate' is not an appropriate use of will power, since the cloaked individual can not simply will himself to remain better hidden from the character with Auspex. how ever, Storytellers must decide for the mselves which types of challenges permit this defensive use of will power and which do not. By default, will power Traits provide a generic retest on a Mental or Social Test, once per challenge. - A will power Trait can not be used to win a Static or Simple Test automatically, considering that many special powers and effects are predicated on such tests. all owing a player to (for instance) expend two will power Traits and automatically win the two follow-up Static Challenges to stake a vampire through the heart unbalances play. - A will power Trait can be used to ignore all wound penalties up to and including Incapacitated for one challenge and one challenge only, including all retests made as a result of the challenge. - Using a will power Trait all ows a player to attempt an action that would normally require an Ability not possessed by the character. Thus, the player could spend a will power Trait to try to disarm an alarm even i f the character do es not have the Security or Science Ability. The will power simply all ows the player to make the attempt. how ever, success is not guaranteed. ## TIME

The inexorable press of time in Mind's Eye the atre games breaks do wn into different segments to approximate the durations of various powers and events. ## NORMAL TIMEVERSUS COMPRESSED TIME

For the most part, Mind's Eye the atre games run in normal tine -the amount of time passing in the real world equals the time passing in the game. Thus, if a player wanders about the game site, talks to a few other players and has a drink (taking up an hour of time), the n an hour passes in the game as well. Under some circumstances, though, the game shifts to compressed t i w. The resulting phenomenon is called (in the vernacular) a ttme-hubbk. In compressed time, game events do not actually take as long to occur as the real world dictates. Thus, i f a series of tests ta k e s five minutes toreso Lveonetumofcombat, the ntheplayersinvolvedinthetumhaveexperienced compressed time -their characters have had only five seconds of game time pass. Moving from compressed time to normal time can be tricky. The best solution is to assume that the extra time is taken up overseeing wounds, helping all ies, getting back to the game site or attending to other minor details. Thus, if several players in compressed time take two hours of real time to finish a combat, but only pass a few turns in the game, the n it's best to assume that they return to the game site two hours later, having rested, driven to the appropriate location and so on. ## MEASURES of TIME

A turn is the brief amount of time needed to use a quick special power or to make a single attack against someone. In general, a turn lasts five seconds; most characters can take a single action in one turn. A Narrator may choose to make a turn last as long as a minute depending upon circumstances, but a turn is usually just a brief interval of time. Laws of the Hunt states that a turn takes fourseconds, but considering that many powers work in intervals of five seconds, the latter is a more sensible time frame. A conflict comprises several turns. If a player involves himself in a series of challenges with multiple individuals, unbroken by changes in time, space or events, ## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL this segment of time is oneconflict. Anexample of aconflict is asingle combat between two sides or a series of tests as a character in a car tries to pursue a fleeing opponent. As long as the tests continue to resolve a single outcome (finishing the combat, chasing the enemy, conditioning the mortal, etc.), the incident is a single conflict. A conflict is assumed to last 10 minutes i f an absolute scale of time is necessary, although this estimate may be extended to account for a particularly long conflict. A series of conflicts makes up a scene. As long as the characters pursue the same goal with ln a given perid of time, they are with in a particular scene. Thus, a coterie of vampires fighting against its Sabbat foes would have a conflict for each battle fought, but the series of battles taking place in one graveyard would comprise a single scene. A scene is assumed to equate to one hour of time; powers listed as 'lasting for a scene' end when the scene ends (in the previous example, i f the players left the graveyard or slept for the day) or when an hour of time elapses in normal-time play. Thus, i f a player invokes Encrrmcement on someone for ascene, the targeted individual remainsentranced until the game markedly shifts locationand time, until are al hour has pass edoruntil the conditio ns for brealung the Enrrancement are met. One session generally results from an evening's play. A session usually includes several scenes but may only be one. Most game sessions last several hours in real time. A session has no predetermined time; when in do ubt, assume that a session lasts from sunrise to sunset (or vice versa) for game purposes. For ease of tracking Traits and the like, a session ends when all of the players go home for the evening, and it begins when they come back again. At conventions or locales in which a game proceeds constantly for several days, assume that each session is comprised of one day and one night (the Storyteller should decide in advance if the session breaks come at sunrise or sunset). For most games, a session is simply the monthly or weekly game night. Astory is the result of several sessions developing a coherent plot. A story can be told in asingle session, but it i s usually the result of several interlinked sessions. The conclusion of amajt)rplotline, be itthedeathofacharacter, the resolutionofaproblemorthechanging of a tradi tional event or thing, marks the end of a particular story. Certain Traits and powers last for the duration of astory or can be used only a certain number of times in a given story. For ease of record-keeping, Storytellers may simply decide on a particular calendar break (at their discretion) a s the refresh date for such powers, all owing them to update all game participmts regularly instead of having to track diverse time arcs with different Traits. Finally, a chronicle i s the tale of many characters and settings spun together through their stories. A s long as a game continues with the same characters, places, rules and events, it i s probably a single chronicle. Multiple threads resolve the mselves, and numerous stories m a y end in the COUR of a chronicle. Like a series of books or movies, the chronicle i s the overall picture of what's happening in a particular part of the World of Darkness. Any given game can be considered a chronicle in its totality; that is, the chronicle changes when the Storyteller decides to start a new game, possibly with different characters, changed rules and new goals. ## LOOK IN^ AHEAD

Obviously, as the Mind's Eye the atre game system continues to develop, new rules and new problems will crop up. The changes mentioned here may not be good for all time. how ever, intrcducing the se corrections now should go a long way toward correcting some of the more blatant difficulties in the Mind's Eye the atre system -we'll admit it, we're human (more or less), and mistakes do occasionally creep in. When in do ubt, use the most recent sets of rules published; every METbook takes steps toward amore coherent rules base. Ifyou like the new additions you see, don't hesitate to integrate them into you r existing games -after all, the fact that Military Influence wasn't written into Laws of the Wild shouldn't preclude you from adding it to you r own! As always, this journal serves to keep players and Storytellers informed. Watch this space-we have new ideas, suggestions and input coming all the time, some of it even from dedicated players out the re (like you). ## AT HOMF WITH THF CAMARILLA by Jenn Kellam

Director of Public Relations for the Camarilla fan or ganization and simple purpose: t o show (who don't know) that they and that LARPs are not ins ings of gaming-community patrons wtha j7ar for actmg. Both the Camarilla and One W o r l d b y Night ( a m g the mny, many such or gamzatlons) mke hwe-actiun gaming a global neighburbod, as well as this article, and Ducan Wyleys, serveapue makingothervaluablecontributions. Whether you are hammering nails onto a new roof for Habitat for Humanity or hammering nails into the coffin of you r character's nemesis, the Camarilla, White Wolfs of ficial fan club, is here to build a community. We frequently refer to ourselves as an or ganization of garners for garners, and it is this community ideal to which we aspire and grow. Based on the concepts of education and leadership training, the Camarilla gives people new skills, new friends and one heck of an exciting world-wide game. The Camarilla is anon-profit or ganization based out of Salt Lake City, and our purpose is threefold. First, we strive to provide acontinuous world-wide live-action interactive the ater game based upon White Wolfs World of Darkness -more simply put, a LARP. We utilize several e-mail lists and a host of volunteer Storytellers to run this game. The chronicle has been in place for six years, and it's still running! This October, the entire or ganization of the Camarilla came together to solve a complicated and deadly plot that affected the who le chronicle, something never seen before! Over a year of plotting and work went in to create the horror and the complexities of the plotline we lovingly refer to as the 'Vorosja Debacle,' and all Camarilla players will continue to feel the fallout for years to come. It is just this kind of long-term chronicle that the Camarilla promotes. Our second goal is to promote community service and civic involvement. This effort gives our members a sense of personal accomplishment, as well as reminding our communities that garners are people who are just as concerned and civic-minded as their next-do or neighbors. Over the years, we have hooked up with the Red Cross, the Special Olympics, AIDS research, shelters and tornado and flood relief, and we have do nated thousands of hours to helping out in our local communities. One of the Camarilla's funniest stories comes from an auction we hosted. A ---LA+id a rather large sum of money, and the auctioneer began to argue with ier, insisting that this was real money and not in character money. The

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL argument continued until the member walked for ward with a personal check for the amount mentioned. Everyone involved in the do nation began to laugh and cheer as the auctioneer's jaw hit the floor. The story spread like wildfire, and that year many children at the Shriners Hospital were given another chance at life. Our last and most important goal is to provide our members a good time, in game and out. We have been asked to host the openings of movies like B l a d e and Men in Black while dressed in costume, we have raised the Elder Gods in Call of Cthulhu LARPs, we have participated in One World by Night and Liquid Dreams LARPs and we have danced do wn the trods with our Changeling Storytellers. We try to promote events that everyone would be interested in or would like to be involved in. I guess the most important thing to mention is that we strongly encourage new and old members to go to the ir of ficers with the ir ideas for events and work on putting the m together for everyone to enjoy. One region rolled some of the objectives of the Camarilla together into a day called the 'Garou Moot and Pool Party Barbecue.' In character, members playing Garougot together to celebrate the summer solstice. Everyone had fun as they tried to convince the Red Talons to get in the pool and get a little wet! I also heard rumors of members having a lot of fun during a weekend at a regional game and a day at Six Flags over Georgia with members from several different states! the re is something in the Camarilla for everyone, and that is what we are all about! The Camarilla began in February of 1992 In Seattle, was hington. Jana Wright and Matt Burke made an all-important phone call to White Wolf to find out if the re were any fan club or ganizations for the new Vampire game. The answer was no, and thus began the Camarilla, White Wolfs fan club. The concept of the club was that it existed for people who not only enjoyed the game but pursued other interests that would fit with in the Gothic concept. It was also at this time that the first members named our magazine Requiem, and they have watched it grow from a simple newsletter into the quality production that it is today. In March of 1992, at Nonvescon, the first members handed out flyers and an interest sheet to find out

ATHOMEWITHTHE CAMABILLA

-~ ~

\_\_

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

Coordin, Ltor who do es not have to worry about the Sabbat raid tonight, the character histories due for review or the outcome of a cross-regional Influence battle is free to plan next week's birthday party. Almost every level of the or ganization utilizes a balanced team of Coordinators and Storytellers working together for the enjoyment of all members. The most important part of the or ganization is the individual person. Thus, local members maintain the basic or ganization and flavor of their own chapters, and this feeds into the personality and cohesion of the or ganization as a who le. If local members want to create a chapter dedicated to creative writing and critique, the Camarilla helps them set their chapter up that way. If they wish a chapter dedicated to hosting or attending troupe games, we help set their chapter up that way. Each chapter is in charge of its own identity under the ideals of the 'Chapter Strong' philosophy of the Camarilla. Most chapters are active participants in the internacional global game, and most utilize the Storyteller-Coordinator partnership method to or ganize their of ficers. At the base level, the n, are local chapters, with the Coordinator and Storyteller in charge of or ganization. Chapter-level games are the most prolific and form the bulk of the Camarilla's chronicle. Chapters are also the closest social circles, hosting such things as weekly Buffy parties, after-game get-togethers and do nation drives. Next up is the do main level. The do main is an or ganization of several chapters in one city that have set their groups up to work together. The do main may host citywide games, promote citywide service events or host a do main party and gettogether. This level of the or ganization helps in large cities. It breaks up the chapter of ficers' workload and builds continuity and an extra level of communication for the members. The do main Storyteller hosts the larger games and is in charge of weaving all the plots of the chapter games into asingleunifiedstory. The do main Coordinator maintains the newsletters, secures game sites, opens and maintains lines of communication between chapters and or ganizes the occasional do main service or social event. Next, the United States is divided into eight regions. Each region is headed by a Regional Coordinator and Storyteller. the Regional Storyteller weaves all t h e sanctioned do main and chapter storylines into an even larger unified plotline. The

-~. \_

\_

\_

\_ \_

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

1. Steadfastly follow the policies and Code of Conduct of the Camarilla. 2. Be courteous and cordial. Solve problems, don't create the m. 3. P1aysafe: don't touch, nostunts, nodangerous props. Nodnnkingandnodrugs. 4. Compliment, don't criticize. 5. Have fun! The most not ed aspect of the Camarilla is the six-year-old sanctioned continuity of the global game. We utilize White Wolf books and materials, focusing our efforts on creating a shared World of Darkness. Any of ficial chapter of the Camarilla can become a part of the continuity. Once this happens, players can join a tapestry of shared events and political maneuverings and lend their own characters to become a part of the hunting, posturing and manipulations of the game. We support Vampire, were wolf and Wraith, and our Storytellers recently added Changeling. The Camarilla, taking its lead from White Wolf, has separated our venues to support a game that more closely resembles the World of Darkness. We host Camarilla/ anarch/ mortal, Sabbatl mortal, changeling, Garou/ Kinfolk/ Bet6 and wraith venues. On the rare occasion that they happen upon each other, the venues do cross. The Influence game, which is very strong in the Camarilla, crosses all venues -mortals can learn of careless Kindred through an Influence war. In Chattanooga, Tennessee, Camarilla members play common mortals slowly becoming pawns in the lives of the Kindred. The game has an X-Fiks feel, as the players' mortal characters are immersed slowly in the global continuity of Kindred and Garou games. A s you can tell, we support all manner of games. It is important to not e that the re is a difference between sanctioned games and troupe games. We do host and promote several troupe games. the se can be anything from a game that uses our rules and creation system but stays outside the continuity to a 'God Game' in which everyone plays a Methuselah and attempts to kill the others of f until the re is only one left. We encourage members to attend LARPs hosted by or ganizations that are not a part of the Camarilla. ## MIND'SEYE the ATRE JOURNAL

We are currently in the process of developing a functional and easily workable method to create a sanctioned White Wolf tabletop continuity. In the meantime, we do engage in general tabletop gaming with in our chapters. Members encounter the World of Darkness, Cthulhu and his Miskatonic madness and traditional dungeon crawling in ADBD. Camarilla members have even taken board games such as Talisman and Star Wars Monopoly and created chapter and do main tournaments! We also enjoy participating in more active games like touch football and ultimate frisbee: One region frequently challenges its do mains to fight it out on the frisbee field or basketball court! Over the years we have endeavored to participate more and more in conventions on a local and national level. In 1998, several local chapters hosted events such as demonstration games or community service booths at local conventions. Nationally, the Camarilla participated in Gen Con and Dragoncon. We met many wonderful people at the se conventions and managed to meet other LARP or ganizations. At Gen Con, we met One World By Night and wore its 'Bite Me' but tons in or der to participate in its LARP as mortals. (of course, we did get together with other mortals and attempted a mortal uprising against the oppressive tyranny of the vampires.) At Gen Con, we met the creative members of Liquid Dreams, an all Sabbat LARP in Atlanta. We also met many of the members and coordinators of Sabertooth, a Vampire or ganization in New York. It was amazing to make all the se connections and realize that we are all a part of a much larger community. Many regions host regional events every few months. the se events usually encompass entire weekends during which the region rents out a hotel. During that weekend, members host several tabletop games, a weekend-long sanctioned game, how-to lectures and regional member and of ficer meetings, as well as or ganize a dealers' room. In the dealers' room are exhibits from local non-profit or ganizations and local shops and artisans. White Wolf occasionally puts in an appearance to promote the most recent publication in the Mind's Eye the ater product line. One region has had such success with one hotel that the managers proclaimed the Camarilla one of the nicest groups they have worked with and left us with the keys

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL to the hotel and the owner's home number in case of emergencies. they invited us back. for next year. The Camarilla is trying its best to promote gamers and the gaming community as a group of responsible and fun-loving adults. Nationally, the Camarilla has put together a convention that we lovingly call ICC, or the International Conclave of the Camarilla. The first year of the convention was 1996, and it was hosted in Houston, Texas. Every year the convention has grown by 30%. It consists of four days and nights of LARPing, tabletop gaming, a charity auction, meetings for of ficers and members, open board meetings, parties, dancing and, of course, a well-used booth from White Wolf. We host it every year during the week before Halloween. It is a time when members from literally all over the world come together and renew friendships out of character and pursue the hunt as Garou or seek the demise of a centuries-old enemy as vampires. This year, in Salt Lake City, we added our Changeling and Wraith venues. We also had a surprise when Fox Television showed up to videotape us for the ir newscast! It was really amazing to walk through the halls and hear people calling to each other and introducing new members. Over 550 people from all around the globe attended this last convention, and we are expecting that number to grow even larger in Portland in 1999 and Cleveland in 20 0 0! the re remains something to be said about the creativity of the members and the family created by the Camarilla. Our members are writers, students, lawyers, do ctors and rocket scientists. We are ro!eplayers and community members. We are old and you ng, we are tall and short0 we are a little bit of everything. I have seen members come in of f the streets and turn the ir lives around. I have seen chapters get together to raise money to help defray medical costs for a member who is sick. I have seen members find other members jobs. I have attended parties, weddings and graduations and welcomed new babies home. Members get together to write stories and articles, create works of art and take amazing photos! The Camarilla is about bringing in the innate talents and abilities of every member and sharing the m with each other to create a community, write a story and bring about a little change. ## I E IT r's Broke

From time to time in a live-action roleplaying environment (especially one in which numerous characters are involved), things get out of hand, and characters make decisions that get everyone in their respective societies in a great deal of trouble. Vampires break the Masquerade; Garou endanger the Veil; changelings blow the rights of the Escheat right out the window; waiths violate the Dictum Mortuum. But what's to be do ne when the thought of having to push that big, ugly RESET but ton looms! This column hopefully serves as a gukkline. In each installment, you get the problem plus the solution (all of which come out of real gaming experiences). ## How not TO THROWA MUSIC EESTIVAL

## THE PROBLEM

It all started reasonably enough. A Sabbat troublemaker had been dropping hints of his where abouts to the local Camarilla-loyal denizens of [Anycity], GA. He had been taunting the prince and primogen council shamelessly, and the prince had finally dispatched a small coterie (including a Tremere, a Malkavian and a Gangrel) to find this vampire before he did some real damage to the Masquerade. Following a tip, the coterie tracked the Sabbat to a side-street in Atlanta adjacent to the site of the Music Midtown Festival. do dging through a crowd that had gathered to taunt and out-shout a local streetpreacher (one of Atlanta's many), the coterie closed on the Sabbat's position. they spoke to said rebel, but he was not content to stay put. Drawing the three along, he moved closer to the crowd (a crowd which drew in the people leaving the Festival just do wn the street). When he had led them to the center of the crowd, the Sabbat sprung his trap, designed to shatter the Masquerade in do wntown Atlanta. with out warning, he uppercut the Malkavian, sending the hapless Lunatic flying across the street and over a row of parked cars. The Gangrel leapt at the Sabbat, Wolfclaws gleaming in full view, and missed. He sailed through the air, trying to catch himself, but only managed to draw 10 deep rents into the hood of a parked car before rolling into the peoplepacked street. The car's alarm went of f, and those pedestrians who had n't already not iced (or bolted like sheep from) the commotion all turned to stare agape. But it was the action of the Tremere that really stuck in their minds. Thought he was too stunned to move when the for merly talkative (even genteel) Sabbat first attacked, the Tremere regained his wits as his two companions fell in short or der. He stepped into a clearer line of sight with the Sabbat and enacted the Thaumaturgy power the ft of vitae. As the Sabbat gasped in unexpected pain, a viscous red torrent leapt from his body to the outstretched hand of the Tremere. Suddenly rethinking his goals (he'd do ne more than enough already), the Sabbat turned his supernatural prowess to self-preservation. Disappearing at inhuman speeds, he carved a path through the throng and out of sight. At which point, of course, all hell broke loose. The rowdy, milling crowd scattered in panic (those who still could, anyway), and even the vociferous street preacher turned tail and fled with the sinners. The fleeing people collided with the ones spilling over from the Music Festival, all shouting about what had happened. Aghast, the three

## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL

Camarilla-loyal vampires slipped away (under the woozy Malkavian's power of Cloak the Gathering) as sirens began to push their way to the scene. ## THE SOLUTION

Naturally, when word of this fiasco got back to the prince of [Anycity], said prince was not happy. Shattering the tranquillity of Elysium, he gathered every Kindred in attendance. He commanded everyone present to pool every last resource available to them (every do llar; every ounce of Influence) and work toward quashing the problem. In the end, the following Influences came to the for e: Church

Finance

High Society

Media

Police

Street

And how did the unlucky Camarilla vampires use the se Influences? Inshort, the vampiresused each to create and cement a plausible (ifnot highly likely) cover story, reasoning that an outlandish believable story would have a much greater impact and would be more memorable than an outlandish unbelievuble story. The cover story stated that, in the late hours of the Music Midtown Festival, an outspoken fire-and-brimstone street-preacher had taken it upon himself to bring light to the eyes of the baleful sinners of Atlanta. In so do ing, how ever, he had shamelessly lain about with accusations of exactly who was a sinner and why, and (in his own spectacularly undiplomatic idiom) he had managed to start a small-scale race riot. how ever, merely saying a thing is never enough to make it true, and it took the collective Influence of every [Anycity] Camarilla vampire to make it a reality. The Medm and Police Influences went out almost immediately to clear up the public and of ficial record of what happened. A plant inside the are a police department was dispatched to monitor incoming eyewitness reports and either lose them entirely or alter them in such a way that the supernatural violence reported was toned do wn to the level of monstrous human violence. Those vampires with eyes in the local public media maintained a vigilant watch on live videotape submissionsthus curtailing the release of anything directly incriminatingas well as calling many different broadcast stations and newspapers with false scoops on the story the Kindred wanted to see put for ward. Some of the Police Influences also went into having the incriminating car towed away and destroyed. (One generous vampire even used a Bureaucracy Influence to see that the human auto-owner's insurance company paid the salvage cost.)

Finance, Church, High Society and Street all went to backing up the public and of ficial view of the story once the Kindred had gotten it out. The vampires used Finance and Street to bribe various 'eyewitnesses' to speak to the police and local news broadcasters. The Church Influences coerced local churches from all around Atlanta and [Anycity] to is sue press releases condemning the wayward street-preacher who'd started the who le mess and to of fer any sort of community aid in their power. Similarly, the High Society Influences were used to cajole a similar series of press releases from the promoters, performers and subsidizers of the Midtown Music Festival. Due to the vampires' quick reaction and blanket Influence-spending, the story they wanted heard quickly became the of ficial story. As for the coterie of vampires who let the situation get so far out of hand in the first place... well, let's just say that the re are some horrors in the World of Darkness that are best left unspoken. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL roleplaving and live the ater in the people involved in our hobby. And we're having some fun along the way! OWbN would like to grow, and we are still accepting and processing membership applications at present. Our website at http://www. owbn. com has more information for readers who might be interested... c'mon, you know you want to. Bwa-hah-haaa! Soon ve shall rule za verlt! No, seriously... We're working toward becoming an expansive community of camaraderie and roleplaying. In some small way, we are contributing both to ourselves, in terms of fostering plots and friendships, and to the gaming community as a who le, in terms of growing awareness and acceptance by a number of social groups. Many of our players are involved in the business and social communities in our respective towns and countries, and the friends we make in the se or ganizations come to accept that what we do is a harmless pastime. In both ways, our hobby is fostered. This is, in my opinion, a Good Thing. To ensure our enjoyment, we've constructed an or ganization that is easy to join and participate in, with only a few restrictions to keep things comparatively sane. One World isn't a hierarchy that costs our chronicles anything to join or stay with. The main thing we ask is that our chronicles emphasize stories that are meant for the enjoyment of our players -we hope that any players who may travel from around the world will be enraptured by and entrapped with in the intricacies of another shadowy comer of our One World. We're not a small group of individuals that changes you r chronicles to suit its whims. OWbN's founding idea is that all games have a great degree of autonomy -essentially, as we put it, 'you r game is you r game.' This philosophy has yielded us a veritable melting pot of styles and personalities. With no central overriding the me and no do minant personality other than trying to be generally receptive to all styles of games, we appeal to all types of garners. When we encounter situations that involve crossover interaction between chronicles, we encourage the Storytellers of those chronicles to communicate and elaborate the plots for the enrichment of both (or all) the games involved. We are not some industrial bureaucracy that for ges and legislates its chronicles into carbon copies of one another; chronicle-diversity is essential. We all build upon one another -good ideas spread, and bad experiences are shared in or der to keep other chronicles from facing similar problems. Individuality is the heart of our or ganization. One World isn't limited. The only limitations are the ones we place upon ourselves and the ones required to administer the or ganization. With the addition of each new chronicle, we add to the experience, wisdom and creativity necessary to expand and enhance the ever-unfolding story that is our One World by Night. Hmm... Perhaps a little background is in or der. One World by Night started in Chicago, Illinois, USA in March of 1994 at a local roleplaying convention by the name of Concentric. Hey, neat! We're five years old this year. Maybe we should throw a worldwide party or something. Anyway, a game was held between a local gaming group in Chicago and another group from Indianapolis, IN known as The Beautiful and the Damned. After the convention, the game never ended. The convention's plots were incorporated into the new Chicago game (started by Mario Bonassin), and the or iginal storyline for One World by Night was born. The Chicago game grew quickly as the players played with in the Excalibur nightclub, the actual model for the Succubus Club of White Wolfs Chicago by Night. In addition to Chicago players like Dave Gill, other non-Chicagoans joined the game. John Flournoy was running the Lafayette game at Purdue University, IN, and among his players were two students from the East Coast, Bill Hyatt and Rich Devine, two of our first Head Coordinators. When some of the se players left for their respective home cities, the idea of an intertwined World of Darkness arose. One night at a Chicago game in the top floor of a bar called the Morseland, Dave Gill and Bill Hyatt put for ward their ideas for a shared game, though it would be unlike either the Camarilla or the Shared Universe system. The focus would be a shared story, not shared rules. Bill had the exact same idea and even had a name for the concept. The first Midwest shared game was created between Lafayette, IN and Chicago, IL. After about three months, Bill and Rich went back to NVA and we thought the game would end. On the contrary, our little experiment proved that a shared game was possible but that it needed work. It needed a charter so that all the Storytellers would know what they were getting into. The charter needed to outline clearly that you r game would remain you r game and that no one would stop you if you wanted to go through the entire rulebook and rewrite it (as we all did several times over). But goofy-ray-gun-wielding Mummies were not in any way to have a part in the shared story. Bill, who had named One World by Night, became the Coordinator, creating a web site and acting as a contact for other games. He talked to people about our project and marketed the or ganization's focus -'you r game is you r game.'

We soon recruited Jake Holub and the San Francisco delegation, both of who m are with us still. We became national, spanning coast to coast, in a matter of a few months. Concentric '95, in March, was the first OWbN Conclave, at which we discovered how different our rules really were and polled the players to find out if they wanted some universal rulings. The answer was an overwhelming affirmative. Not only were they telling us that they enjoyed being a part of the game but also that they were confident and comfortable with us making the se universal decisions. Gen Con '95 was the or ganization's first of ficially sanctioned event (although it was not of ficially part of the convention) and the first meeting of the chronicle representatives. This was the first occasion upon which we firmly decided on some of the articles that now comprise most of the charter rules. No chronicle would be all owed to act against or outside of the se rules, for we believed that we had the plan for creating a successful network of LARP chronicles. From the se Articles came written hints and models for starting a successful chronicle, optimum conditions and where to look for renting sites. OWbN had created a kind of manual for running you r own game and keeping it afloat. Since the n, OWbN has grown to encompass over 60 chronicles, mostly in the USA and Brazil. Other countries, such as Spain, Brussels and New Zealand, also have member chronicles. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOUBNAL

We recently ran another convention LARP at Gen Con '98, the world's largest gaming convention, held annually in Milwaukee, WI. The attendance was phenomenal, exceeding 240 players. The latest event was the Mid-Atlantic Conclave, held in Baltimore at the end of October. It involved the cooperation of three different games in the are a, a monumental feat of or ganization that was pulled of f flawlessly. Characters and Storytellers from 13 different chronicles from California to Chicago to New Zealand attended. That's right -New Zealand. That little agricultural country. That's where I live. I had a great time. But I digress. OWbN is administered primarily through a series of coordinators and council members drawn from the various chronicles. Each chronicle has a voice on the Council through its council member, who is selected by the players and Storytellers in that chronicle. The council member is responsible for representing his chronicle's interests, keeping the Council apprised of any situations of regional or international significance that may arise, and voting on any matters that may come up in council, such as the admission of new chronicles to OWbN. Council Members are also primary contact points (alongside the Storytellers) for other chronicles wanting information or updates on current plots in their local chronicles. In most cases, council members are also Storytellers (although this is not always the case) and can give immediate answers -otherwise they direct the querent to the appropriate person or ask the question on the person's behalf. Voting itself is a simple matter -in most cases, a proposal to the Council is presented and (hopefully) seconded. A period of discussion is all owed and the n a vote is called. Each chronicle is all owed one vote, as are the HC and AHC. Generally, a majority of the received votes will indicate the proposal's success. The Council also votes on applications for chronicle membership, and the Admissions Coordinator may cast a vote in the case of a tie in the se situations. ONEWOBLD

With the continued expansion of OWbN, we slowly refine our internal management processes. This year should see some very progressive steps in this direction. The improvement of our operations should streamline a number of is sues. A set of coordinators is elected each November to hold positions of specific responsibility in OWbN. The Head Coordinator (HC -me) oversees the entire operation of OWbN and is assisted in the task by, naturally, an Assistant HC. Alongside the se two, an Admissions Coordinator tracks new applications to OWbN and keeps tally of the membership. the se three people form the core of OWbN's administrative team for out-of-character is sues. The HC is primarily responsible for overseeing the progress of OWbN as an or ganization, for dealing with matters arising in regard to the OWbN Charter and for maintaining some sort of or der amid the chaos. The HC also assesses disciplinary situations that may require OWbN's attention and dispenses advice to chronicles as requested. If he's a good boy, he gets a pat on the back occasionally. He (or she -although we are yet to see a woman be insane enough to stand for the position, I believe, so please for give the male pronoun) is also responsible for supervising the other coordinators as a group. He selects the coordinators each year (subject to a verifying vote of confidence for each by the Council) and thus hopefully assembles a team that can work together for the betterment of the games in general. The Assistant Head Coordinator (Joyce Summers) is responsible for maintaining the sanity of the Head Coordinator by dealing with the administrative minutiae of OWbN, such as voting procedures. This year will see the further expansion of the scope of this position to encompass maintenance of and regular contact with our more distant chronicles and assistance with the redevelopment of a number of our or ganizational systems. Matt Giezentaner, our Admissions Coordinator, and I will continue to receive and assess the initial admissions applications to assist new and existing chronicles in their applications to One World by Night. Matt is available for consultation with anyone considering joining OWbN and can answer most questions you may have or direct you to someone who can. His contact information can be found at our website. Speaking of which, OWbN is strongly tied to the Internet as a primary mode of communication. the re's no way I'd be running it if I had to pay for all those toll calls to the States every time I needed to see what was going on. So i f you're interested in joining up, please bear in mind that you will need people in you r group who have regular access to the Internet -at the very least, you r council member must be able to receive Council mail. OWbN has a number of e-mail lists that all ow for quick and easy communication between our members, in or out of character. This system provides another level of interaction, a challenging and informative method for players to share in the loves and lives of each online character's shadowy existence. Many players access the se lists daily, and the re are some people we just can't shake of f the Web. We've found that this sort of international interaction has really helped characters in their recognition of each other and encouraged cross-chronicle

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL interaction -even if it is just traveling across the entire country to give a rowdy Ravnos a Puissance wedgie. All chronicles are also strongly advised to have a website and to (try to) keep it updated with the latest news and game information so that others in the are a can check out when they can attend the ir neighbors' games. Keep a copy of you r house rules the re as well so potential visitors can read up on the local variances to reduce interruption in the flow of the game. Moving on... As OWbN has grown, the need for specific clan coordinators has developed. At present, OWbN has coordinators for the more specifically structured clans -Assamite, Giovanni and Tremere. This concept may soon be expanded to encompass other clans. Additionally, we have a coordinator for Sabbat activities and another for the Garou players. As OWbN continues to grow and different types of chronicles join in, the structure of OWbN will adjust appropriately. Additionally, to centralize and control the flow of information and clan activities, we have coordinators for each of the seven Storyteller-controlled justicars. the se people act as clearinghouses for the various and nefarious wheelings and dealings of the se ancients, and they give many of OWbN's players a focus for the ir gameplay -and they instill appropriate fear in the characters. The 'Justi Coords' maintain regular contact with the Storytellers of OWbN as required and assist in resolving plot is sues involving the ir of fices. We generally keep the justicars' actual appearances at games limited to conclaves. Archons or secretariats to the justicars are preferred for ms of Camarilla enforcement if intervention or contact is required. Recent events in the OWbN continuum have seen a marked increase in the number and caliber of archons appearing in Camarilla do mains. The death of Xavier, until recently the justicar for Clan Gangrel, has obviously shaken the heretofore impervious justicarate, and the re is visible evidence of its unease. the refore, OWbN has an infrastructure that exists to support all the people and characters associated with in. Storytellers have access to many other Storytellers to be inspired by and to inspire. Players have access to thousands of other players to interact with, plot with and generally breathe life into what we call our One World by Night. Well, that's pretty much how we run the or ganization, but you'd probably prefer to hear about the chronicles. OWbN is do minated at present by Camarilla-based vampire games. the re are exceptions to this -a few games are primarily Sabbat or Garou in focus, a couple are anarch in nature, and some games mix'n'match genres. The primary rulebooks we use are The Masquerade Second Edition and Laws of the Night. Other books see inclusion as the Storytellers see fit and as discussed by the Council -for example, some aspects of Laws of Elysium are generally considered in OWbN to be restricted to Storyteller characters rather than open to players. OWbN's vampire games are directed primarily at the you nger Kindred. the re are restrictions on the play of true elders and on some of the types of Kindred permissible in any chronicle -for example, True Brujah or Salubri. Similar rules will apply to other supernaturals as they are developed and enter OWbN. As an example, we took the opportunity in 1997 to echo the 13-year meeting of the Inner Circle to change several of the justicars. Clan Toreador kept Madame Guil, who or iginally appeared in Diablerie: Britain, and Clan Malkavian kept Justicar Lucian, a character from the card game. The Ventrue opted to choose Tai Pan Robert Pedder as the ir next lawmaker. Other than those characters, the other justicars (Masako, Clan Brujah; Kharel, Gangrel; Ctarinov, Nosferatu; Malaphar, Tremere) were created with in OWbN to fill the positions. New concepts presented by White Wolf (such as the many alterations to the WoD as presented in the revised edition of Vampire: The Masquerade) are discussed by the Council and the Storyteller teams before anything is introduced to the mainstream of the games. how ever, OWbN's in-character politics do have a natural progression that is becoming very similar to a number of things that White Wolf has presented. So what's happening in One World by Night as the millennium approaches? Some Kindred truly believe the Final Nights are drawing near as the numbers of the Caitiff grow and the clans of the Camarilla become more fractious each week. The elders seem aloof and uncaring, the justicars play unknown games behind closed do or s, the Sabbat is around eachcornerin many cases well rooted in place among its unsuspecting opposites. Meanwhile, the Garou struggle to preserve the ir heritage as the ir own enemies plant the mselves more securely than ever in the cities and drive the were wolves from the ir cairns. the ir war against the Wyrm continues unabated. The Gangrel of America face desperate times as the ir elders are slowly stripped from the m by negative for ces. The loss of many of the ir elders in recent times has shaken the Gangrel's dedication and loyalty to the Camarilla. Clan Brujah struggles to remain a cohesive who le, its members torn between the ir loyalties to the Camarilla and to the ir clan. Browbeaten by the ir elders and tongue-lashed by the ir anarch brothers, the ir loyalty also sways. ## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL

It is important to not e that Nunnehi are not openly divided between Summer and Winter factions like the Kithain are with the Seelie/Unseelie dichotomy. Nunnehi of different camps may have trouble seeing eye-to-eye on certain is sues, but all recognize the role each has to play in the greater cycle. ## NUNNEHI S E E M I N ~ S

Nunnehi have three seemings, just like Kithain do. During creation, add one additional Glamour (called 'Medicine') Trait to the usual starting totals, a boon of the Nunnehi's spirit ties. you ngling: Children are the treasures of the Nation, and they are defended by all, regardless of camp or family. Most are given silly names to shield them from jealous spirits, and all are considered to be of the Midseason camp. Brave: The dynamic, creative for ce of the Nations, braves are great lovers and fighters who strive to put a new face on the old ways. Braves are given new names based on accomplishments or reputation, and they may choose their camp freely. Elder: the se Nunnehi are revered for their great wisdom, and they seek to keep old legends alive for the next generation. they may choose their own name, and most settle into one camp for the majority of their time, leading and teaching other Nunnehi. ## NUNNEHI EAMILIES

Nunnehi do not recognize kiths, but Families. A who le Family is called a Nation, thus the or igin of the title 'Nunnehi Nations.'

## c A N O T I L I ( T R E E DWELLERS) the se mischievous for est dwellers of the Midwest aid or hinder hunters who venture into the ir territory. Affinity: Prop

## Birthrights: Earth Blend: By remaining perfectly still, the can otili may change color to match her surroundings like a chameleon. the re is no cost, but the player must cross her arms to signify this Birthright's use as if she were using Veiled Eyes, and movement of any kind can cels this power immediately. This only functions in are as of natural wilderness. This is a Wyrd Birthright, but only if the Nunnehi attempts to hide in view of mortals; can otili already hidden remain so even if mortals enter the are a. Physical Enhancement: All can otili gain the additional Physical Traits: Wiry and Rugged, which can never be lost permanently. ## Frailties: Terror: When surprised, can otili exude a pheromone that causes powerful fear in non-can otili around her; all such creatures must win a Simple Test (or spend a will power Trait) or flee in terror. Supernaturalcreaturesdonotflee but insteadstrike out instinctively at the can otili, receiving a free retest on the first combat challenge resulting from the surprise. can otili can not control this fear response in any way. ## I N U A ~ ( S P I R I T H E L P E R S ) magical and shapeshifting powers. Acting as advisors to tribal shamans, the se faeries of the far north exhibit great

Affinity: Fae

NUNNEHI F O R THE SHINNINC~ HOST

Affinity: Nature

Affinity: Scene

NUNNEHI FOR THE SHINNING HOST

## Frailties: Weight of Years: Upon becoming an elder, the numuzo'ho either loses an arm, leg or eye to age and decrepitude. This change can not be healed or averted in any way, and it should be represented by using the appropriate Flaw (like Lame or One Eye), but the character gains no Traits for it. ## p u' gwrs the se cursed fae of the far north are hideous to behold, yet they possess entrancingly beautiful voices. Affinity: Actor

## Birthrights: Song of Beckoning: Pu'gwis may call others to the m with a hypnotic song; this do es not affect most supernatural creatures, but mortals may be called with a successful Social Challenge against the ir will power. Song of Dismissal: The pu'gwis may remove all memories of himself from the people around him with a successful Social Challenge, which targets may resist with will power. Targets summoned by the Song of Beckoninguse only half the ir Traits to resist, and anyone -even other supernaturals -may be affected by this power. ## Frailties: Decay: No pu'gwis may have more than three strength-related Physical Traits, and in kith for m they automatically gain the Negative Social Traits: Repugnant x 3. This is a Wyrd Frailty, although pu'gwis have the Repugnant Trait even in human for m and may never take any beneficial appearance-related Social Traits. ## ROCK GIANTS not unlike redcaps. Fearsome fae of the Northeast, the se stony giants have tastes and dispositions

Affinity: Nature

## Birthrights: Flint Coat: Rock giants gain an additional health level, and any attacks by stone weapons do no damage what soever. This is a Wyrd Birthright. Prowess: All braves gain the Physical Trait: Brawny, which may never be lost permanently; elders gain an additional Brawny Trait. Rock giants also gain a free level of the Brawl Ability, which may never be lost permanently. ## Frailties: Hothead: If the ir bravery or prowess is questioned, rock giants assume the ir Winter aspect automatically and focus on not hing else but proving the ir might to the of fender. No apologies or explanations suffice -at least one blow must be struck against the of fender or a chosen champion before the rock giant can rest. ## SUREMS (YAQUI LITTLE PEOPLE)

Southwestern faeries who despise violence and noise, the se Nunnehi possess uncommon strength nonetheless. Affinity: Actor

## Birthrights: Serenity: By spending a Social Trait and succeeding on a Static Social Challenge, the surem may exude an air of serenity for five paces around herself, for cing anyone already with in that range (or who enters later) to spend a

NUNNEHI

F O R THE SHINNING HOST

Type of Challenge: Mental

Type: Chimerical

One Trait

Two members

Two Traits

Four members

Three Traits Eight members

Four Traits

16 members

Five Traits

32 members about any story type. The job of the Storyteller here is to decide what the mes will be important to the game so that plot elements can build from those the mes later. By way of example, if a story focuses on redemption, the players must be given opportunities for their characters to witness or perform horrible deeds so that the later redemption has meaning. When building story elements, remember that the ultimate point of the game is to have fun. Many Storytellers come up with intriguing plot ideas but become so intent on showcasing their unique creations that the players lose the ability to influence the direction of the game. Once all power of choice has been removed from the players, the game stops being fun. Thus, if a chronicle focuses on helplessness, the Storyteller must balance the players' feelings of inability to affect their environment with the needs of running an entertaining chronicle. Story elements should just be broad statements in the outline of the game -the actual focus on driving plot pieces comes later. Look at the broad picture of the mes for the game, pick a few and write them do wn. It's important to have more than one story element, because players have varied tastes and not all players want to be involved in every type of story. Similarly, recognize that individual Storytellers have different styles; the Narrators and Storytellers of the game must have plot elements with which they can effectively work. A Vampire game of romance, intrigue and betrayal is conceptually great, but it won't last long i f the Storytellers and Narrators aren't comfortable running some of the the mes or if the players don't want that sort of game. ## GROUND Up

With core the mes and some basic mechanical tweaklng do ne, it's time to look at the prospective plotsfor the game and the elements that will all ow it to r u n over the long term. Preparing for a long-running game isn't difficult, but it do es require advance planning. This is the stage at which the Storyteller should set up the backstory and start soliciting players and assistants. Also, any regular live-action game needs a solid meeting place, so this is the phase for picking a location (and alternatives). Other mandatory paperwork -rules updates and the like -needs to be do ne before the game begins as well. ## PLOTTING STORY ARCS

Story arcs come in three types for full chronicles, unsurprisingly divided into short-range, mid-range and long-range ones. A successful chronicle possesses all three and all ows them to combine so as to form conflicting elements. After all, with out conflict, the players may not feel a sense of accomplishment; the players need to be able to direct the game in some fashion, and they do so through their choices of plot resolution. The underpinnings of a chronicle play from the long-range plot elements. A long-range plot element is really a factor of the story, and it is predicated upon the core the me. Players can and do drive long-range plots, but the Storyteller needs to inject plot elements as well. After all, not every player immediately visualizes goals for her character. The long-range plot elements focus on the chronicle's overall structure and guide the story; they also pull in the players who wish to participate in the overall story. Some sample long-range elements are: The Inconnu bring the hope of Golconda to a deserving Cainite (based on a redemption the me); local Garou become involved in the lives of their Kinfolk and their communities, fighting to defend those parts of human society (based on a romance the me); the local town is

Backgrounds, Influence or special for ms of equipment or Abilities might need review. A mystery-intensive chronicle could be derailed by a character with several levels of the Enigmas Ability; a game about redemption and romance could turn into a violencefest if the souped-up equipment from Laws of the Hunt comes into play with out too much thought. Change or ban elements that don't fit the game's core the me. ## LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION

Ideally, a live-action game can be held in a large, multi-room, indoor, temperature-controlled regular setting that's absolutely free. In the real world... Securing a site before scheduling the game is mandatory! It do es no good to schedule a game but the n be unable to tell players where to meet. Inclement weather and lack of space can also severely handicap a game, as can lack of a location to perform of f-site actions and narration. Keep all the se factors in mind when looking for a site. For locations with good weather, outdoor sites are sometimes possible. Parks and outdoor malls are of ten completely free, and they usually have plenty of space. how ever, the re is always the risk of weather turning foul. Worse still, such games are not necessarily private -and never (but never) try to draw negative attention from the local populace. Most people don't really have any idea of what live-action roleplaying means, and it's not worth drawing in the police over 'strange cult-like activities.' Go for a more secluded spot, or at least one where the outrageous behavior that inevitably crops up can go unnoticed. Some are as provide club buildings or community centers. Such places make excellent venues, but the re is of ten a rental cost. This isn't so bad i f the players can be enticed to cough up a couple of bucks each. Still, be sure to check out the rental agreements on such places. Some buildings may require additional deposits or payments to cover possible damage; accidents can and do happen, and$700 in repair workcan spell do om for just about any LARP. Again, most people aren't familiar with live-action roleplaying, and they automatically make negative associations; this ill shadow (as it were) can be a hindrance when filling out the event for ms that many locations require. Of course, the best spot for a game is at someone's house! A large enough house can easily host several do zen players, and if it's not part of an apartment complex, the LARP's noise quotient and occasional odd behavior won't draw any attention. The problem here is in convincing someone to open up a home for two do zen people, all of who m might be carrying and spilling drinks, tromping about in dirty shoes and grabbing scenery objects as part of their character portrayals. When using a house, be sure to set specific ground rules and to make them known before each and every event. do ing so saves grief (and cleaning bills) later; players should be penalized for inappropriate behavior. Players can complain about their characters being mistreated, but when their in game activities cause out-of-game distress, it's time to trim it back. Also, the homeowner should receive some incentive for making the site available; an extra experience point for the session or other game treat is a good compromise, as is for ming a volunteer crew to help clean up and to provide food or furnishings necessary for the events. ## RECRUITMENT

With a location and a solid game design in mind, it's time to recruit players and assistants. The business of recruitment varies according to the style of game you

## MIND'S EYE the ATRE JOURNAL desire, 1:hough. After all, an invitation-only game has no need for lavish posters all over the place. Open games generally let just about anyone in. Such games can quickly accumulate many players. The risk is that some of the players may bring along the ir own quirks and foibles in a way that threatens the enjoyability of the game. Recruiting for an open game is simple: Place some posters at the local game store; run of f some flyers with a description of the game's core the me; and use the Internet to set up contacts on newsgroups (like alt.games.whitewolf) and e-mail lists (like Vampire-L). Restricted games limit the ir membership in some fashion. The most common type of restricted game is invitation-only; the se games generally recruit solely by word of mouth and only under the auspices of the head Storyteller. Certain clubs and or ganizations like the Camarilla also run games that are available only to club members; recruitment here comes about through club periodicals (like Requiem) and e-mail (like One World by Night's OWbN-OOC list). The first stageofrecruiting is finding out whether the re'senoughdemand torun the game! If a game won't attract more than a couple of players, the n the longrunning plot lines may not have a chance to really shine. with out character interaction, the two players probably won't stick around unless new players are suddenly recruited in the second game session. A good medium is to shoot for at least adozen players; for one-shots, a handful is fine, but long-running games need enough players to divide into factions. Once the game is indemand, pick assistants. Remember, though, that not every assistant (Narrator, coordinator, Storyteller, what ever) needs to be competent in all are as of the game. It's possible that someone is great at providing transportation and site logistics but has a tough time with the rules. That's fine -grab people who can do the individual jobs necessary and assign the m strict roles. That way, the game gets people who can do particular jobs well instead of running the Storyteller ragged or accepting people who may be multi-skilled but noc exceptional in a particular position. It's always good to avoid personality conflicts here; although in the or y everyone should be able to get along and do the ir jobs with out conflict, in practice real life sometimes interferes, and so assistants need to be chosen with an eye toward compatibility (with each other, with the Storyteller and with the players). If everyone hates a particular Narrator, it won't help move rules resolution along smoothly; the re'll be too many arguments. Conversely, someone who knows the rules perfectly may not be well-suited to handling site logistics; such a person should be placed firmly in a rules-narration position. ## THE LONC~ HAUL

Once players are lined up, the location's been picked out, the rules packets have been distributed, the characters are built and the story begins, how do you keep the game from crashing and burning with in three months? Three major factors tend to contribute most to the death of prospective games, and all of them can be avoided with the right planning. ## POLITICS

Face it, although an ideal LARP would have players who could all get along, personal conflicts do arise outside of the game. Too of ten, the se conflicts spill over into the game itself. Avoiding the se conflicts requires direct mediation -politics can't be all owed to simmer. Handle such problems as soon as they come up. The worst sort of politicking comes from favoritism. Storytellers sometimes feel compelled to give special benefits to their friends and significant others. This can be all right, as long as such benefits fit into the context of the game; picking out specific people to play local Hierarchy of ficials for an Oblivion game, for instance, saves the trouble of filling in with Narrator characters and gives a deliberate power structure to the game. how ever, the Storyteller must be absolutely firm indecisions of fairness. If the Storyteller chooses to be unfair or to skew the game's rules or points toward certain individuals, this skewing must be solely a result of the game's play, not because of special friendships. A Storyteller thought to play favorites wins no respect and actually loses players. Generally, the best course is to stick to the same rules for everyone. If the re's a deliberate imbalance of power, it should be specifically written do wn so that it can be seen and addressed by all of the players. Politics also lead to metagmningthe practice of using out-of-game knowledge in the course of the game. Metagaming can be difficult to track; i f a player knows that a particular character is a diabolist, the re's not hing to stop his character from spuriously accusing the diabolist and the n claiming that he was 'just making it up.' Either way, the diabolist gets caught and likely killed; this is no fun at all i f the player spent a lot of effort on his activities. The best way to handle metagaming is usually in do wntimes. Have each player write a report between games on what his character did and learned at the game (as well as what he intends to do during do wntime). If a player uses knowledge that his character shouldn't have, stop it immediately. Once metagame knowledge gets out, it has to be traced to every person 'infected.'

Some players also bring their real-life conflicts with them into the game. If a particular player hates another player, it's possible that the first player may make a series of characters all designed for the specific purpose of killing the hapless victim. In such instances, the best way to deal with the situation is to bring in Narrator characters. Although heavy-handed, this can serve to play up why killing other characters is almost universally frowned on by the higher-ups of just about any World of Darkness group. Also, keeping the players from killing one another in a pointless cycle for ces them to direct their energies elsewhere, possibly adding to intrigue and new plots in the game. ## CHARACTER IMBALANCE

Character imbalance, a subtle, creeping factor, makes a game difficult to control and hard to enter. At the outset of the game, everyone pretty much runs under the same power levels. Players all build their characters with the same rules, and avoiding favoritism lets everyone get a fair shake at the game. New players can come in a few months do wn the road with the expectation of getting involved in an already established good game. The problem of character imbalance starts creeping up after numerous sessions have passed -when players have had a chance to accumulate 50 Experience Traits or more for some of their old-guard characters. the se characters move to the for efront, do minating the game. This is natural; ancilla and elder vampires, old gaunt wraiths and the like should occupy positions of power. how ever, the se characters can come to completely control the game, shutting out new players with less powerful characters. When the se old guard characters can do

## MIND'S EYE the ATBE JOURNAL everything the new characters can do (and do it better), the re are no storylines in which new players can get involved. Ultimately, the re are three good solutions for character imbalance. The first is to build in obsolescence for characters: For every chunk of 25 or 50 Experience Traits spent on a character, increase all costs for later purchases by one Trait. Thus, an elder vampire character who already had 100 Experience Traits spent on powers and Abilities would have to spend an extra two or four Traits on all new purchases. Second, of fer build points for characters: New players might get some extra Traits when building the ir characters so that they can keep up. This tactic invites the worrisome problem of power-escalation, though, causing all characters to become overpowered do wn the line. Third, build in safeguards to keep certain plots open to new players. If some Narrator characters at the high levels of the game direct plot elements toward the new characters or if you simply ask some of you r old guard to step back and all ow new players to participate in certain plotlines of you r designation, you can avoid the syndrome of helplessness among the new crowd. ## SITE CONFLICTS

A well-planned game can always fall to the problems of the real world. Unfortunately, the (perceived) less-than-sterling reputation of the roleplaying game community means that some places may hesitate to all ow live-action games in their are a. Some games even face harassment from local authorities. In or der to prevent problems with conflicts of this sort, always have a backup site planned. When setting up a location, make sure to have an alternate available, and make sure that everyone knows how to get the re as well. Plan for sites at least a month in advance, so that the re is enough time to reschedule and try to get a different backup in or der if something goes wrong. Also, as a matter of common sense, don't antagonize non-players. Although LARP groups of ten adopt a siege mentality about the surrounding community and people who don't understand roleplaying, not hing is served by getting in other people's faces. People who don't understand the hobby don't get a favorable impression when MET players treat them with scorn or derision. Always be polite. If locals or law enforcement ask the group to move to a different location, agree to head to an alternate site and ask to discuss the matter later -better than arguing about it in the middle of a game and antagonizing both the players and the non-players. Remember, some LARP groups might be mistaken for gangs, absurd as it seems (after all, local merchants and police have a valid concern about 20 people in black trenchcoats congregating in a public place and making strange hand gestures). Keep matters low-key, and instruct players to direct people to the Storyteller if a problem arises. Although she may be well-meaning, a player in the midst of a challenge or action-filled scene may not make the best diplomat for an outsider to the game; the Storyteller must be able to fill that responsibility outside of the game itself (remember, most non-players feel very uncomfortable discussing matters in the middle of the game, so be sure to go somewhere else to negotiate). ## 90 qeT'EM! That's it! Seriously. Setting up a long-running chronicle may seem like a lot of work, but it's rewarding to Storyteller and players alike. Keep a sheet handy to jot do wn not es about the various steps in this article, and chronicle setup for most openended games can be accomplished easily in under a day. And, of course, always remember the most important rule -hawe fun. M I N D ' S E Y E T H E A T R E J O U R N A L

'Assignments for this job may impinge quite seriously on you r free time, and you would have to guarantee you r continued availability,' Bainbridge says, the handkerchief bobbing to the oppressive beat of the music. 'You would also be required to pledge a certain assurance of all egiance to my... or ganization. Would that be a problem?'

'You talk like a lawyer, Bainbridge,' I smirk. 'It makes this job sound less worthwhile by the moment.'

Bainbridge's eyes flash, and a dazzling smile crosses his face. I have been told that I am a handsome man -when I am disguised -but Bainbridge is absolutely beautiful when he smiles. 'Nice words from someone who talks like a Harvard English professor half the time,' he says, speaking aloud in his merry amusement. 'But do for give me. I only meant to convince you of how important this job would be to those of my or ganization. The services we require beg a certain amount of delicacy and provider-loyalty.'

'You know how much my loyalty is worth,' I tell him, sitting back in my chair. Despite myself, I begin to relax. Bainbridge sounds desperate, and desperate men with favors to ask are much more tractable and trustworthy by nature. 'That I do,' Bainbridge mouths, still smiling. 'And you should have what you desire.'

'the n tell me the job.'

Bainbridge looks away for a moment at some voluptuous girl throwing herself about with particular grace on the crowded dance floor -he is so easily distracted -the n leans toward me and locks my eyes in his gaze. 'My or ganization needs you r particular skills of mediation.'

I blink. 'Is that it?' I have long availed myself to those of my kind who know to ask. ''It'?' Bainbridge mouthes, incredulous. the n: 'Ah, for give me again. I for get that you have not had the time to think this through as I have.'

'the n do explain,' I say. It is of ten difficult to tell i f Bainbridge is deliberately trying to insult me or ifhe is merely tactless. It is so hard to tell, and with Bainbridge, an accusation of one would likely just bring assurances of the other. 'What I mean to say is that my or ganization wishes to be you r sole patron in the dispensation of you r diplomatic ability. We wish to make you a kind of envoy.'

'Why?' I can just imagine the endless frippery and decadence I would have to put up with were I to agree. Bainbridge's associates are -like Bainbridge -given to boring, pointless dalliances in art and social maneuvering. This time, Bainbridge's pause seems more the surprise of an overconfident man who can not imagine why someone would want to disagree with him. 'Well, primarily,' he says after only a short hesitation, 'because we can of fer you a substantial amount of money, even when you are not on assignment for us. Second, for our own part, my associates and I strive to possess those things that we consider to be the best of their kind. We would be greatly honored to be able to lay claim to you r remarkable talent. Simply put, you are the best negotiator in the city, and you would make a valuable asset.'

MI N D ' S E Y E T H E A T R E J O U R N A L d D

A POSITION OP STRENGTH dB

A POSITION 01 S T R F N ~ T H

MI N D ' S E Y E T H E A T R E J O U R N A L

4 D e

Bue

## DEPLOYMENT

Part Two is the most freeform of the adventure's installments. It's also the most dangerous: Inter-wraith relations have a tendency to be volatile, at best. Virtually all of the events that occur are direct results of the characters' actions in Part One -actions that could and should have been influenced by player innovation and character interaction and are the refore unpredictable -so only a few have been detailed for you. Character and roleplaying guided the Circle into the situation it finds itself in at the outset of Part Two, and the way through this chapter is, again, through character and roleplaying. ## SUC~C~ESTIONS

This installment has a few more new characters than the first one. The most important character you r troupe meets during this game is Joseph Sauvant, a Hierarchy agent assigned to the Circle's case. The Circle has a potentially vital relic -Nakagawa's box of Heretic contacts and plans -and the Hierarchy wants it. If the characters went to the Hierarchy for help in Part One, Sauvant is likely to try to talk the group into handing the box over. If they chose one of the other options, like the Renegades, he might be inclined to use less diplomatic tactics. Other characters the Circle might run into are the two Heretic agents with in the Hierarchy who are out to silence the group, Heretic cult members, Renegade leaders and Hierarchs trying to preserve or der. If you created any or all of the se characters when you played Ambassador, it's a good idea to use the same ones again. Of course, if the characters came from a pre-existing chronicle, you can just brief the players and not worry about making any new wraiths. the re aren't many propsfor this chapter; it's almost entirely based oncharacter interaction rather than the discovery of some new relic. The item cards for the relic box, the wakizashi and anything else you used in Part One should be sufficient. ## S C E N E

Hard

## ONE Info: The Hierarchv now knows -either because the wraiths told the m voluntarilv in Part One or through the Hierarchy information network-about the box and the fact that the Circle has it. If the Hierarchs don't have the relic already, they want it. The same goes for the Heretics. how ever, now that the ir plans have been fouled up (Nakagawa falling into the Harrowing and the box going to the Circle), the re are new agents in town. The Heretics listed on the paper in the relic box are members of a cult with branches in almost every city in the Shadowlands and Stygia. That cult is now on the brink of being discovered, and the agents have been sent in for cleanup and ass-covering maneuvers. Though the Heretics who tried to take the Circle out for 'knowing too much already' in the first installment of Mayday! failed (if you r Circle made the choice to approach the Heretics), the se new agents are here to finish the job. What's really going on here? Now is when you, as Storyteller, find out. The Jade Empire has been planning to invade Stygia, with the help of the covert Heretic cult, for some time now. The characters are at ground zero for the invasion of the ir Necropolis. No matter what the characters do, this attack is going to happen, and it's going to happen on a fixed schedule: one day after the characters first receive the relic box from Nakagawa. This timetable should absolutely not be immediately obvious to the players or the characters. they should be able to figure it out -even the radar controllers at Pearl Harbor had all the signs right the re at the ir fingertips, after all -but the Storyteller shouldn't just hand it to the m. MI N D ' S B Y E T H E A T R E J O U R N A L

## Choices: Characters can attempt to investigate the Heretic cult further. they might try to infiltrate it or pump information from other wraiths, or they might go about spying from a more arcane angle. The amount, nature and veracity of the information they get is up to the Storyteller and Narrators, but keep in mind that the invasion plot is carefully guarded and will not be divulged at all lightly or will ingly. If the characters have already gone to the Hierarchy or if they choose to go to the Hierarchy now, they can attempt to help in the investigation of the cult, assuming they've convinced the legionnaires to mount one in the first place! Various Social challenges and extensive roleplaying should be called for, as the Hierarchy is extremely suspicious of the characters. The Hierarchy has a few bad apples in its barrel. Two Heretic cult infiltrators have made it into the ranks and they work actively, though subtly, to keep the characters from getting involved. they will do the ir utmost to quash any investigation the Hierarchy might launch. Heretic cult agents tail the Circle. The characters have to work extremely hard to find out about the surveillance, much less do anything about it. Characters might attempt to mislead the spies or they might use a more direct approach and confront the agents openly. of course, the fact that the re are cult spies following the Circle makes infiltrating the Heretic cult considerably more difficult. If the characters chose to take refuge with the Renegades in Part One, they might get in good with the Renegade leadership. Careful prodding and demonstrations of trustworthiness ought to earn the characters some information: Nakagawa's disappearance was not random. The Renegades had enough for eknowledge of the invasion to not only research the Jade wraith's Fetters but to arrange to have one of the m -the teacup -destroyed in or der to send him into a Harrowing and, with any luck, keep the invasion from happening. Social and status-related effects of this chapter are potentially profound. Hierarchy-affiliated Circles might gain status and perhaps a more tangible reward for the ir help. Groups appealing to the Renegades for protection and support might strengthen the ir all iances

M AY D AY!? ae and open channels to new sources of support -and gain the severe disapproval of the Hierarchy while they're at it. Clumsy characters could very easily find the mselves on the top of everyone's shit list! don't for get the taint on the wakizashi Nakagawa was carrying in his box. Whether in the handsof aplayer'scharacter or a Narrator, the potential for Catharsis is a strong story line and makes for interesting plot twists. This chapter should end either one day after the Circle obtained the relic box or when the characters have come to some sort of decision about how to deal with the Jade invasion (if they've found out about it) or the race for the relic box (if they haven't). So ends this the second installment of Mayday! Look for Part 1 1 1: Invasion in the December is sue of the Journal, where in this thrilling plotline reaches its climax and conclusion, after which the Underworld will never b e the same. T h e following is a 'skinand bones' cheat-sheet of suggested Traits and a background sketch for Joseph Sauvant, the Hierarchy agent assigned to retrieve the relic box from the Circle. ## THE I N V E S T I ~ A T O R

## THE SKIN

Sauvant was a patient and obedient French soldier, in life. The only thing he lacked was ambition; he never managed to rise above the rank of private even though he had the ability and the raw skill to go much further. His civilian life was quite similar: He loved a woman, but not enough to marry her; he had a few friends, but no special comrades. Only his mediocrity and his desire to do better brought him to the Shadowlands when, long after he had left the army, he was killed by a thief. Now, Joseph Sauvant is a careful wraith, dedicated to do ing his job thoroughly and well. At the moment, his job is to get Nakagawa's relic box and all the information contained in it from the Circle and take it back to the Hierarchy -and he uses what ever means he deems necessary to get that job do ne. If the characters managed to convince the Hierarchy to listen to them in Part One, they find Sauvant persistent and rational in his attempts to convince them to hand over the box. In any other case, Sauvant demonstrates exactly what made him a good soldier: relentless attention to his task. He might comer the characters and verbally browbeat the m. On the other hand, he might comer them and physically browbeat them -hey, what ever works. ## THE BONES

## PERSONAL

I N E or MATION

Name: Joseph Sauvant

Life: Soldier

Death: Random violence

Nature: Follower

Demeanor: Bravo

Regret: Never having made anything of himself

MIND'S E Y E T H E A T R E J O U R N A L

## KITH

ESHU

Spirit Pathways cards are not cumulative overmultiplesessions; only one Spirit Pathways cardisissuedpersession, and nusedcardsshould bereturnedtoa Narratorat the endofthesession. （Usedcardsofcourse, are tuedinsooner.）

## BACKGROUNDS

TITLE the Social Traitsgainedfrom the Title Background do not counttoward Traittotals for the purposes of can trips, except for the Sovereign Art.(Yes, this gives the sidhe a distinctadvantagewith this Art, but because they useit sparinglyand the yaretheones who createditandprimarilywieldit, this shouldn't bea problem.) Charactersmust declarewhen

## ERFQUFNTLY ASKFD QUFSTIONS A

The constant evolution of Mind's Eye the atre brings new and different questions to the game. This is sue, we tackle questions and comments about The Shining Host. No one's a greater critic of a writer's work than the writer himself. Thus, when I went looking for a rules update, I turned to the author of The Shining Host, Peter Woodworth. He had so much to say that I devoted this entire section to his info. Send you r Mind's Eye the atre questions to: White Wolf

Attn: Mind's Eye the atre Journal, Frequently Asked Questions 735 Park North Blud, Suite 128 carlawhite-wolf. com

## ERRATA, OMISSIONSANDSOFORTHFOR

## the SHININGHOST by Peter Woodworth they are adding Title Traits to the ir Social Traitsfor achallenge, how ever, since opponentsmaychoosetoignore the Title Traitsandforce a character torelyonhis own Social Traits alone(eveninacantrip situation）.how ever, ignoring a nobles titleisaseriousinsultin Kithainsociety, and acharacterwhodoessohadbestexpect someformofpunishmenttofollowfor suchan insolentdisplay. ## OCCULTINFLUENCE

Yes, I goofed. It should say“Kithain”instead of“Garou."

## ARTS

## S O V E R E I G N ( PROTOCOL)

Please not e that this Art means that i f the can trip is successful, the target may not break Protocol for the court occasion in any way unless he spends a will power Trait. If Protocol is cast on an are a by using the Scene Realm (as is commonly do ne at a freehold), any who wish to break Protocol with in the boundaries of the can trip must beat the caster in a Static Social Challenge for every disobedient action they wish to perform. Characters may also spend a will power Trait to can cel Protocol for the mselves (but not the rest of those characters present). not e that in either case the caster will know that Protocol has been challenged but not necessarily by who m unless the rebellious character makes it obvious. ## REALMS

## SCENE

As this Realm was constructed for an average-size are a of play, such as the ground floor of a house, the numbers for this Realm may need some do ctoring to make it useful in larger settings, such as conventions. Feel free to manipulate the numbers to make the Realm work in you r game, though Storytellers should take care to maintain game balance (somone crisping everyone in the game with a single Pyretics strike tends to make for a lot of unhappy players) and that the numbers won't run the Storyteller herself ragged trying to keep up with the scope of players' magics. When in do ubt, use the names of each level of this Realm (Closet, Guest Room, Ground Floor) and you r own common sense as you r guide. Changeling isn't about yardsticks, after all. ## BANALITY

## USING ACTIVE BANALITY AGAINST can TRIPS

The phrasing in the rulebook makes it too easy to abuse invoking Banality as a defense against Kithain can trips. It is the refore recommended that Storytellers limit the characters who are able to actively use Banality in the following ways: First, characters who have been enchanted by a changeling can not actively invoke their Banality -they've been taken along for the ride, whether they like it or not. Second, characters must be at least vaguely aware that something out of the or dinary is being directed at them -a mortal or derly chasing a pooka may use his Banality i f the pooka beginsscreaming gibberishand pointingat him, but he can not do so ifthepookasimply sits in acomer, staring into space. Finally, some troupes may wish to rule that characters who have invoked their Banality to try to can cel a can trip and failed may not attempt such a defense for the remainder of the scene, as the characters' disbelief has been shaken too badly to serve them for the time being. ## can TRIPS

## RETESTING can TRIPS

Overbidding is a perfectly legal means of retesting a can trip -after all, what good are Bunk Traits unless they can help in the possibility of an overbid, too? how ever, assume no Ability-related retests are possible unless the can trip specifically all ows them -in other words, no ''I use Subterfuge to retest my Chicanery powers.' Advanced troupes may elect to all ow Ability retests of can trips if the player can explain how the Ability directly relates to the can trip's use. In or der to avoid endless retests and other entanglements, it is recommended that beginning troupes restrict retests to overbidding, the House Eiluned Boon and defensive Gremayre uses. ## —the MASOUERADE-

## —LAWS OF THE NIGHTE RU T IN you R HANDS. CONCENTRATE ON TH THE QUICKANDEASYPOCKET-REFERENCETOMIND'SEYETHEATRE.ITALLOWSYOU TO

## LAWSOFELYSIUMTHIS RESOURCEISTHECOMPLETE GUIDETOCREATING,MAINTAININGANDRUNNINGA VAMPIREELDER.ITALSO CONTAINSEXTENDEDDISCIPLINESFORTHELONGNIGHT. ## —LIBERDES GOULES:THE BOOK OF GHOULSCAND DE SURE, the REAREPLENTYOFTHINGSTODOWHENYOU'REDEAD, but HEREYOUFINDWHAT

## —LAWS OF THE HUNTMORTALSARETHEPLAYTHINGSANDPUPPETSOFTHEWORLD of DARKNESS-UNTIL they DECIDE TO FIGHT BACK.TAKEBACK THE NIGHT with LAWS OF THE HUNT. ## —THE LONG NIGHTTHELONGNIGHT TAKESYOUINTO the DARKMEDIEVAL WORLD OF THE I2THCENTURY and MAKESYOURKINDREDCHARACTERTHEUNDISPUTEDMASTEROFTHENIGHT. ## LAWS OF THE WILDK BRINGS THE RULES of were WOLF:the APOCALYPSETO the LIVE-ACTIONSTAGE. ## -OBLIVIONHORROR OF W R A I T H: mOBLlVIONAND TRANSLATES IT I IND'S EYE the ATRE SETTING. "LIVE"-ACTIONROLEPLAYINGINTHELANDSOF the DEAD,OBLIVIONTAKESTHEPASSIONAND

## —THE SHINING HOST-. A COMPLETE MIND S EYE IHEATRE RULEBO k ' -THE WORLl G THE DREAMING. D OF (h4NGEI.W

AND REVELATI01 ES THAT TELL OF BE USED AS A AC GETTING IN THE MOOD

W E AND LON(

PLAY

## D'

Coterie ot the Crimson Night; St. Louis, MO Third Saturday of each month Jamie Schneider, jaclon@juno. com (314) 837-3640

GAROU

## NORTHWEST US

Ruby Rain Society; Edmonds, WA Firstand third Saturdayofeach month Tracy Soldan, tarot01@juno. com

Tacoma; Tacoma, WA First, third and fifth Saturday of each month sheperd@darkdestiny. com (253)581-8728 the atre of Roses; Battleground, WA Every Sunday Kwei-Cee Chu, kc@csua. berkeley. edu

Of No Concern; Eugene, OR Second and fourth Saturday of eachmonth Jmcloud@gladstone. uoregon. edu

Seattle; Seattle, WA Second and fourth Saturday of each month seattledomain@usa. net

Olde Guard; Anchorage, AK Every Sunday Tom Alexander, nightstalker@customcpu. com

## NORTHCENTRAL US

Knights of Rage; Colorado Springs, CO Every other Thursday Dan Page, all mity Bob@aol. com (719)447-0399

## SOUTHCENTRALUS

Crimson Tear Society; Jonesboro, ARBryan/College Station; B/CS, TX Firstand third Saturdayofeach month Second and fourth Saturday of Tom Mc Farland, eachmonth thomasmc@fastdata. net Ken Reinertson, (870)931-0959 khr7057@unix. tamu. edu

Fourth Tower Falling; Dallas, TX First Saturday of each month Matt Ragan, matt\_ragan@hotmail. com (972)788-1895

## SOUTHEAST US

Houseofthe Sanguine Moon; Tampa, FL Second and fourth Saturday of each month Hope Summerall, zandria@hotmail. com

Onyx Illuminatus; Charleston, SC First and third Sunday of each month Ian Betts, alisterlegare@hotmail. com