

Satan madehimselfmultifariouslyobjectionable and was finally expelled from Heaven.Halfway inhis descent hepaused, bent his head in thought a moment and at last went back."the re is one favor that I should like to ask."
- "Man, I understand, is about to be created. He will need laws."
- "Name it."
- "What, wretch! you his appointed adversary, charged from the dawn of eternity with hatred of his soul— you ask for the right tomake his laws?"
- "Pardon; what I have to ask is that he be permitted to make the m himself.'

Itwassoordered. - —Ambrose Bierce, the Devil's Dictionary

## Credits

Written by:all an Tower and Michael Mc Laughlin

Development by:Jennifer Hartshorn and Richard E.Dansky

Editing by: Ronni Radner

Art Direction by:Aileen E.Miles and Lawrence Snelly

Art by:Jason Brubaker, Daryll Elliott and Alex Sheikman. Cover Art:Timothy Bradstreet and Grant Goleash

Cover Design:Aileen E.Miles

Layout and typesetting by:Kathleen Ryan

## Special than ks to: Carole"Repent, Harlanquin" Simmons, because nobody escapes the Spe cial than ks list. Brad"Alpha Mail but kovich, for finally asking the Net all about Wraith Matt "At Least you did n't Scare Me"Millberger, for putting in Developer hours on Dark Ages. Ronni "Ropin' the Dreidls"Radner, for making Hanukah a little bit country, a little bit klezmer. Michael "Sugar Mouse" Rollins, for having the sense not to play Peter Hammill in public. Kathy "how dy, Neighbor"Ryan, for moving over to the safe side of the parking lot. 1996 by White Wolf.All rights reserved. Reproduction with out written permission of the publisher is expressly denied, except for the purpose of reviews. Mind's Eyeheatre, Masqurade, Vampire:the Masqurade, Dark all iance:Vancouver, Chicago By Night, Milwaukee By Night,D.C.y Night and World of Darkness are trademarks and copyrights of White Wolf. the mention of or reference to any companies or products in the se pages is not a challenge to the trademarks or copyrights concerned. Because of the mature the mes involved, reader discretionis advised. PRINTEDIN can ADA

## e Princes Primer

## Table of Contents

| A Brief Introduction | 7 |
| F.Lyon Wall's Guide to How the Clans Screw the ir Own | 10 |
| Leadership Cost Analysis | 20 |
| A Treatise on Conflict | 34 |
| Some Readings on the Clans | 42 |
| not es Found in the Effects of Lodin, Late Prince of Chicago | 52 |
| AManifesto on Becoming Prince | 72 |
| Report from the St.Louis Conclave | 96 |
| Appendix: Some not able Princes | 117 |

## Brief Introduction

Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair. Percy Bysshe Shelley,"Ozymandias"

## How To Use this Book

A collection of treatises, ruminations, recollections and letterson the duties and responsibilities of a prince among the Kindred, The Prince's Primer is ntended to enlighten, inform, educate and perhaps even amuse.t is not ntendedasablueprintforbecoming prince, nor is it the be-all and end all of Kindred political thought on princedom.Rather, it is a collection of opinions from both princes and the ir enemies onwhatmakes a prince, and what keeps a prince in power.Its advice should be taken piecemeal, not for the gospel, and certain of our authors may have conflicting opinions on the same matter. This is just as well; what works in was hington may not play in Peoria.You may not find it useful the next time you find you rself prince of a city, with60ravenous Brujah in the hallwaywanting totake ameetingwith you hnagainoufollowitssnsopullyyouwillvefnduslf in that situation. In any case, enjoy. m

HESERoUGHPHTOCOPIED PAMPHETSHAVE REEN FOUNO ON SEVERAL you NGKINDREDEIN RECENTMoNTHSWoRD OETHEIR APPEARANCEINOTHERCTES has BEGUNTOSPREADASWELL THIS PARTICULARPAMPHLET was FOUNDIN the PERSONAL EFFECTSOFASTORMYYoUNG HOREADORORATORHHOHAOTHE of A30-Sto Ry BUILDING LANDINGINSUCHAWAY that HERHEADWAS REMOUEDBYTHEIMPACT

K.M.G. ## F.LYON WALL'S GUIDE TO HOW THE CLANS SCREW the IROWN: HOW TO BE the LIFEOF the PARTY with OUTFOOTING THE BILL

F.Lyon here, the Baedecker of political pitfalls for discriminating bloodsuckers.Today's lesson, kids...Pay attention! I do n'twant to have to rap any knuckles, not that I would n'tenjoy it.If I know the dark, deviant littledreamsofmany of you, you wouldn't mind either, but I digress.Today's lesson is all about getting the most from you r clan while giving the least in return, kind of likeprinces do.Ifyou do itright, every daywill belike a Do it wrong, though, and you become the little or phan boy who gets treated likea servant, though someofyou sickleechesmight like the idea of living a Charles Dickens story..Anyway,I'll go through this cian by clan, bottom to top.don't fall asleep through the parts that you don't thinkconcemyou, because the rewill bea test.It's called the rest of you r unlife, and it's rass or fail. is all well and good if the re is someone from outside the family giving you griefbut that usuallyonlyhappens once.Coaches always say that the body rememberswhat the brain for gets, and the Brujah are reallygood at teaching the body. School of Hard Knocks, you know. What the Brujah of fer one another is a mob of well-armed thugs with bad attitude. they ll pound one another as soon as you look at the m, but they close ranks tightly against membersofotherclans.Knowinghowthe Brujahtreattheirown, itsrobably also a smart careermove. The bad thing about this mob is, well, that it'samob.If you get anything likemaybeaposition or money, the mobwill want its share the resnothing quite likea family protection racket.Brujah princes have it really rough;the away with it since one of the irs in on the big chair.The prince has to keep the peace, with out alienatinghisown clan.the bestway of do ing that is to give the m somethingtoplaywithlikeanestofbighairywolfboys.Hoursof fun, Creditforputtingdown the do gs.f the ylose, the princegetscreditfor trying aren't around anymore. I'snot prettybut what do you xpect? We're vampiresand hatword is pretty synonymouswiththetermtotalbastard. the re are loners, and the n the re are loners.After that, the re are the Gangrel. Pound for pound, the re's probably no clan tougher in the entire Camarilla.Are you listening, Brujahkids?And they're sneaky, too, coming and going as they please.Real friendly, especiallywhen two of the m meet. they immediately act another, but they all seem to get along real well Problem is, the re are n'tever really very many of the m in any particular place.That's the drawback tobeing a Gangrel;from day one you're pretty nuchi on you r own.Probably why the ones that make it are so tough. That's alsowhat's good about being a Gangrel. they almost never have an elder about telling the m what to do, and when they do, it's usually good sense either.It'sa rare event that will draw more than a coupleof the se folks together, but when it happens, watch out.they've usually got the ir tails in a knot over toyou, but it's damn important to the m, and blood usually flowspretty freely. That's probably why you almost never seea Gangrel prince;most of the m have wandering fever and can't stay in one place for too long.Know what they call a princewho leaves hiscity?Anex-prince.fyoudorun acrossone, shellbe the toughest leech for miles around, guaranteed.And shewon't behappy to see a mission-drivenpackofother Gangrel, either, becauseshell beexpected tojoin in the just crusade against what ever evil Crusades are bad for princes; they damn near busted Europe, and that was n'teven in the ir backyards. you that you're totally sane, buster?If you're honest and not a complete idiot, that gave you pause.Ifnot, well, time has a way of taking careofliars and fools. tellyouwhy sometimesit'sgood tobecrazy, and why hangingoutwithcuckoos tons.Like this little pamphlet;who d'you think really reads this stuff?Not the eldersbut the kiddiesmightget somethinggood and useful outofit.or they mightgetachuckle, or something towrapfishin.Noone takesakookseriously, so a serious kook can get a lot do ne so long as he acts nutty from time to time. It's a for m of invisibility:out of mind, out of sight. The badpart is the othernuts.Ifyou get more than a few together, it turns into chaos.Everyone starts screaming for attention, and not hing at all can get accomplished.The only real thingwehave in commonis beingafewcards short neuroses with someone(which is much more sanitary than sharing blood), you might actually manage to get something useful accomplished. But basically, being a childe of Malkav is great around other leeches, but more than a little depressing when you're hanging out with the family.And the prince of fools? That is a rare bird indeed, and I don't mean a cuckoo. It's a thin line to walk betweena working maskofinsanity and having enough lucidity to function.It's been do ne before, and humans have certainly been kmown to have insane monarchs, but the stigma of beinga kmown neuroticis hard to shake; Yeah, so heyreuglytleast the yeonlyugly on the outsidewhicha hell of a lot more than Icansay for lots of bloodsuckers.Having to face the world as you really are do es something toyourperspective,I think All the Nossies I've met have been straight up. they stick by one another, too, which is more than I can say for a lot of leeches.they're a tight-knit bunch, but it'skinda understandable;wouldn't you turn to the only peoplewho wouldn't give you a hard time about you r looks? Superficial they aren't; they can't afford to be. Everybody kmows that no one is better informed than the Nosferatu.What most folks do n'tknowis that they all share the majority of the irinformation with one another;it's a group protection kind of thing.So that's what the Nos do for one another;they stand up for each other, and watch out for the irkind with the tools athand.The do wnside of itall is the ir reputation, not the ir looks.the yre like Switzerland with attitude; they don't of ten take sides, but when they do, head for another city.People are reluctant to trust the sewer dwellers other than for the accuracy of the irinformation.Years of beingin the tradehave made the m Nosferatu princes I know of pretty well Think about it: Would you want to go toe-to-toe with the one person who kmows more about you than maybe you rself?Damn rightyou wouldn't Unfortunately, they are a lonelylot, based on both the irappearance and the rcreepyreputation Ilkemalotbut Icoulnt imagine living like that

You kow the oldsaying Keepyoufriendsclosebutyournemiescloser did n'tknowbetter,I'dswear that the guywho thought it upwas talking about the Tories.Sure, the yre one of the respected, good-looking and well-dressed clans, but it'sonehellof a price to pay.f you are n'tan artist, you realreadya step back Even fyou are anartistanda damned goodneyou still aren't assured of anythingwith this bunch.Ona good day, the Tories are elegant and graciousmakingthe Ventrue and remerelookliketheyshopoutofcatalog and get the ir manners from reading old books.And they kmow how to throw a the hands of the Brujah (sit do wn, thug boy, that was only a figure of speech） than sufferthroughone of the ir very publicattacksonmy character.Brutal is not even a strong enough word. So let's say you'rea Torie princesshard to think of the m as anything else; even the guys are absolutely spoiled rotten what would that mean?Well, for One thingoubetterlook, ress and act the partor the disherswilldo thi worst onyou On the other hand, you would getrespect if you could pull itff. Throw in extravagant art shows and you're set, at least with you r own.The walk the walk.The do wnside is that lots of folks will assume you're either a fecklessartistoragood-for not hinggosip Ineithercase, the ywonttakeou a Torie gets you in the do or, but more as the entertainment than as a guest. ## TREMERE

Is it cold inhere all of the sudden, or is it justmeheseguys (and gir:I don't mean to slight the do minatrixes of magic) have a chilly reputation for a reason.If you kmewwhat I mew about the m, you'd have trouble sleeping days. call meF. Lyon Wall for not hing.To the newwizards on the block, the restof the clan is you r stem father figure and you r worst enemy combined. If you're Tremere, you kmow exactly what I mean.If not, try to imagine it, and the n multiply several times.In the ir defense, though, the Tremere do of fer total, bosses'rules, and they only tell the m to you after you break the m.It's a rough life, but ifyou survive the irstfewdecades, you come outhardspooky and want to pay the price. what the clanasksdemandsreally, Iwasjustbeingoliteiobedience sounds likea cultthatsnoaccidentthrganizaioniapyramidaferll and you find you rself standing all alone in the spotlight.I'veheard of wizard princes in Europe, and I'mvery glad that the re'sa who leocean betweenme and the m.Think for a second about the first one who realized that you get anentire clan(aeast seven, ccordingtmy ourceasrincefyourearankandle member, this sgreat, but ifyou'retherinceitbiteshard Ifany Tremeremesse the.clangets the credit And robody is gong to besympatheric to the poor little prince; everyone kmows older Tremere have the ir emotions cauterized when they sell the ir souls to the ir masters... the re'sblue blood, and the n the re'sindigo.Beyond that you ll find the color of Ventrueblood.Smug do esn'tevenbegintodescribethem.of course, if Icould make people love me and dance the Charleston naked in the rain, I might be smug too.Ill have to remember that dance trick for a future occasion, but I'm just as clueless about love as you r average human I think visiting Golconda might be a more realistic occurrence, and I can sell you a map, cheap. The Ventrue clan is like a corporate package deal that you don't have a chance to but I've also heard it called paralyzing caution. Money and statusmattera lot to the Ventrue.they always of fer one another members of the ir own clan a list of favors as long as the ir Rolodex.It makes sense, really;why would the clanlet someone siton the throne feveryonewho mattered did n'thave somethingtogainbyit?Really, though, itisn'tthatbad for the prince.feveryone has somethingto gainbyyourretentionofyourposition, the n the yll work tomake sure you keepit Itjustbecomes arace to sec how long you can put of f repaying those favors while you're racking up a list of debts Owed to you Likea dayattheraces, but with out Groucho and Harpo.The stakes are an awful lot higher, too.A prince who's a bad gambler could lose a lotmore than his hand-tailored'shirt

Weluadatncaudava an awful lot here if you weren't careful.Like that Bacon man said, one couple of other pithy little quotes about knowledge that I've always wanted to use, soconsider this a medleyoflearning;kmowledgeispower, knowledge implies action, and knowing is half the battle. Kids, don't read this last part;it's only for you r elders and princes. F.Lyon Wall tries to please all crowds, after all. Yflay onay ethay all way. ## JEREMY LANCASTER AND ASSOCIATES,LTD. C N S U T A N T S

Kansas City Dec.4

Dear Mr.Smith; Asperyourrequest, hereis an analysis of current operational policy and the toolsbywhich to implement it.the re are twomain sections, dealingwith information and humansrespectively.Each section is further broken into various spheres of influencewithfactorsfortheimportanceofeach, the costof obtaining the m at auseful level, the cost of achieving do minance and the cost for all owing others to surpass you. If this suits you r needs, I look for ward to working with you in the future. Sincerely, Jeremy Lancaster

## Leadership Cost Analysis

## Information conglomerate entity, whether it is a multinational corporation or a principality.ln the modern ageof cable television, personal telephones and computernetworks, it is even more importantto secure a leading edge in information.Technology has made it possible for anyone to be able. ## Computers

Importance:Very Important.the world is rapidlybecoming a computer drivensociety, a trend that is nolongerconfined tothewesternworld. Computers have the capability to impact every aspectofourcasual lives, but they are infinitelymoreuseful and necessary for those in leadershippositions. Costof Utility:Nominal.Computer literacy is becoming rather commonplace among the middle and upperclasses, making the percentageof professionals with superiorknowledge all the higher.Makenomistake; you will need professionals.A teenagerwith a modem and amodicum once, but can not do so consistently. Data or ganization, network maintenance, information trackingand trendpredictionrequiremore stableandreliable talent.the bottomline:several professionals, a medium-sizednetworkand online accesswitharelativelysecure connection.Utilitylevel in computer technologycombinessynergisticallywithutilityinanyotherfield;it is much easiertotrackfinancial dealingswithaccessto the worldmarketsthat are accessible24hours a day througha computernetwork, for example. Costof do minance:High.Technology is changing faster than most can keepupwith.Aswearecreatures used tothinking interms of decades, ifnot centuries, it can be disconcerting to masternew softwareor hardware, onlytohaveit becomeobsoletewithinayear.Nonetheless, this is what mustbedone;oncethetiger'stail has beengrasped, it is unwise, if even possible, to let it go.lt would not beprudent to commandeerghouls, or evenembraceseveralskilledprofessionalsto run this aspectofyourorganizationif itmeansmaintainingacomfortableignorance you rself.Compartmentalization has tobediscarded as a businessstrategy, especiallyinthisfield.what you donotknowcan hurt you and cripple you r effectiveness.Even the most respected and valued underlings can find the prospect of vast resources difficult to resist.Whether this is work on some personal project, or a who lesale

Monetary cost is alsohigh, though the shift away from mainframes has slightlylessened this.Equipmentmustbe upgraded, asmustsoftware. An awareness of the cutting edge, as well as compatibility, is necessary. Remember the Betamax lesson;do not make the mistake of investing in superior technology that is unusable. Cost of Neglect:Incalculable.This is a field that can not be overlooked, nomatterwhat.Manycontemporary Kindred are at leastproficientwith the majorityofanarchsaremodern.lmaginewhatacoreofdedicated anarch hackers could do toyourholdings:you rbankaccounts, you r propertyfiles, you rinvestments, evenyourpolicerecords(which could befabricated, if the ydonotexist).you simplycannotrelyoncommercialservicessuchasbanksandbrokeragehousestohandlethese transactionsforyou;you musttakepersonal responsibilitytoensure the safety and efficacyofyourinformational empire. ## Finance to the mwith the ir short lives and limited perspectives.lt is the path to temporary luxury.Consequently, it is less appealing toaged Kindred, for the luxuries that were denied the min life.Indulge the mwith afew thousand do llars;itisapittance toyou, but maybuytheirdistraction, ifnottheirloyalty. Costof Utility:Moderate.Membersofourclan are eminently qualified for monetarysavvy that nodoubtattractedyoursire's attention will continue toserveyouwell Utilityfor anindividualwithpolitical interestsis measured insevendigits, with asteadyeyetowardmaintenanceand growth.Anindividual in the political spotlightmusthave awar chest in the lowereightdigits, attheveryleast.Again, the emphasisonsteady growth and security can not be stressed enough.Rememberthelessons of unrestrained aggression and short-sightedness in Singapore;many Kindredwillberecovering from that debaclewell into the next millennia. Costof do minance:High.Utilityis simple, yet do minance requires constant vigilance.You must not only be aware of marketand currency for ces, but alsoofthosebeneathyouwhohavetheireyesonupward mobility.the leastthreatening is someonewhomerelywishestogain onherownmerits.lt is a simplematterofbringing the m into you r project or projects you control. Similarly, you can undercut the ir investments and interests if they should become a threat.the greatest threat comes from those who would raise the mselves higher by dragging you do wn.This can be from the accepted practices of insider trading, market tampering aswaspopularin the1980s, datapiracy, r a more direct and obviousphysical terrorism, such as the World Trade

Center bombing. The simplest way to avoid suffering too drastically from any single action lies in diversity and conservatism;high return investmentsusuallycarryhighriskand initial costs.Regardless, itisnot enough to weather the se storms.To retain you r position of superiority, you must ensure that others do not profit too greatly from the storms. of ten the best recourse is to utilize similar methods to those of the aspiring tycoon. Costof Neglect:Very High.An individual may ignore finances and instead work on the currency of prestation with in the Kindred community, yet a publicorpolitical figure can not existon the se alone.Money motivates the kine, and one can not rule a grazing are a with no knowledge or control overthe herd.Showsof comfortablewealthare indelibly affixed topositions of leadership, particularly toprinces.It is virtually impossible toretain the position and the respectof elders and childer alike with outwhatwouldbevastresourcesinhumanterms. ## Nosferatu

Importance:Very High.It is awell-known and accepted fact that none in Kindred societyarebetterinformed than the semalformed spies.No matterwhatyoursecuritymeasures, mechanicalandhuman, the ywill beaware of you r actions and plans.you ropponentswill similarlybe victimtothisspying.Tomaintainrulerequiresaccurateandtimely information, and nonehavealargergraspof it than the sewerdwellers. Costof Utility:Moderateto Fair.the Nosferatu are of tencapriciouswhen dealingwith enfranchisedmembersof the ruling class, and the ymay requiretheperformanceofdemeaningactsaswell ashighpricesfor the ir information.Nonetheless, perseverance and steadypayment will bring the relationshipinto amore standard business for mat.they are merchantsof secretswhowill sell to the highestbidder.Bewary, how ever, when sending underlings into the sewers. Send bonded individualswhenatallpossible, and makeitplaintothemtotakecare in negotiations.Muchcanbe learned from the question, of tenmore than from the answer, and the Nosferatu are very astute observers. Costof do minance:Extremely High.To do minate the informational networkof the Nosferatuwouldrequireeitherthebondingof the undisputedleader, and keeping this bondsecretfrom the remaining clanmembers, or analliancewiththem.Obviouslythelatterisbyfarthe easier and saferrecourse;masterspies, become quiteeasilymaster assassinswhenwronged.the costofallianceremainsquitesteep, how ever.the otherclans, inparticularthe Tremereandthe Toreador, have not hingbutdisgustforthe Nosferatu, eventhough the yutilize the ir services as much, if not more, than the other clans.An open all iancewill bepolitically costly due tothisfact;much public opinion can beswayed.do not expect total complicity from you rown clan, either, unlessyou have the m in an uncharacteristic and enviable position of cooperation and control. Aristocratic prejudice runs deep, but not with outreason. Cost of Neglect: Catastrophic.Assume that no one has more knowledge concerning you r activities and plans than the se deformed Kindred. You will have opponents, ifnotactualenemies, ithinyourdomain, and the reputation of the Nosferatu is well-known.You would be in the position the irs.This may be survivable if you r own position is particularly strong and you r opponents'uncommonly inept. A muchmore daunting situation would be if the Nosferatu the mselves were antagonistic toward you and you r administration. lfeven the pretenseofneutrality is gone, you will not lastlong unlessyoucanbuild a coalition of the other clans to cripple the Nosferatu.This is no simple feat, for no one wants to destroy a valuable resource unless the price for do ing so is commensurably high.Do not alienate or antagonize the Nosferatu. ## Toreador

Importance:Minimal to Moderate.Many see the se Kindred as reclusive artists and idle gossips, but through the course of the ir gossip much information can be gleaned. the majorityof itconcerns the social activitiesof the Kindred society, avital facetofruling.Unlike the Nosferatu, the Toreador do not usually trade this information for personal gain, but use it to the detriment of the ir enemies du jour. Nonetheless, itisanoftoverlookedandvaluablesourceforinformation onyour contemporaries. Costoftility:Low.the Toreadorgossipmongers, the harpies, are more than will ingtogiveoutinformationthatmaymakeothers lookbad as long asyoufeign more interest in the teller than what is being told. Flattery and favorare the mediumofexchangeindealingwith the se individuals.Take care not to tip you r hand;a suspicious harpy is a resourcesquandered, and possiblyaliabilitygained.Givetheappearance of playing the ir game;indulge in meaningless gossip, or plant an others.Aboveallelse, becertaintohaveatleastasmall amountofnew gossipfortradingpurposes. Costof do minance:Moderate to High.Aswith the Nosferatu, it would take eitherabondingofaleaderof the harpies, or analliancewith the m. the for merisatemporarymeasure atbest, astheharpiesareasvicious with one anotheras they are with outsiders, if not more so.Even ifa bondingof astable leaderweretotakeplace, the reisstillthenecessity all iancesmaybebeneficial, but not withoutcost.lf the riftbetweenthe artistes and poseurs is large, the for mermaybesignificantly of fended at an all iance, so much so that they may openly oppose you on minor points.Evenif this do esnotoccur, the disenfranchised Kindred will see this as not hing more than reinforcing the belief that princes foster the worstof Kindredsociety.Inparticular, the Brujahand Nosferatuwill take particular of fense at an open all iance with the harpies. Cost of Neglect: Minimal to Moderate. By sheer virtue of being a public mongers.Do not make the mistake of mortal politicianswho base all of the ir decisions on the probable popularity of the moment. This is the beforeeveryevent.Clearly, this would be the deathknellof aneffective a capricious lot. they may create an atmosphere of mild disdain in those predisposed to it, but alone they can not truly hurt you. ## Humans

The primary job of a prince is to enforce the Masquerade.Nonewould disputethisfact.for tunately, the First Traditioncanprotectaprinceas well as the Kindred population at large.Manyhuman agencies exist to react toparticular situations:the policereact topersonal and property crimes;medical facilities react to and record injuries;local government records things such as property ownership; the media reports on would reactto Kindredactivities, giventheopportunity, and all would potentially breach the Masquerade.As prince, it is a simple thing to for bid and enforceovertmanipulationoftheseandothersinthename of mutual protection, and most would see the logic of such an act. group.Such an action would for ce the target or targets to respond to the agency, rather than the initiator, so that the Masqueradewill remain unbroken.Manywill cryfoul atsuchaction, but itisasimplematterof

## The Media

Importance:Highto Very High.Humansare connected toone anothervia the media;hewho controlsthelatteroftencontrolssomeaspectof the for mer.Firstandforemost, the mediacannotbelefttoitsowndevices; this assuresdifficultyinthemaintenanceof the Masquerade.Damage control is the fundamental useof the media.Kudosaregiventohewho handlesthesedifficulties, but the princestheonlyonewhowillbeheld accountableif they are not. Costof Utility:Moderate.Duetofederalstatutes, itisdifficulttoconsolidatemediacompaniesunderonesimplecorporateentity, thoughan enterprising individual can always finda wayaround the m.this makes the taskofdeveloping and maintainingvariouscontactsmore difficult. of the media, suchasthenewspapersorbroadcasttelevision.ltwillbe of little consequence that the 11 o'clocknews do esnotcarrycoverage edition of the newspaper. To be effective in the minimally acceptable all aspects of the media, or he will be for ced to turn to others in this matter.lf the Masquerade is at stake, most Kindred with any sense of self-protectionwill assist in this matter, but they will alsoremember that the prince could not handle the se matters alone. Similarly, the media can be used to bolster one's other contacts and enterprises, and vice versa. lt is a simple matter to have a police detective leak information to a reporter when both are under you r influence. lf a troublesome Kindred still dabbles inbusiness or society, unflattering articles inthe appropriate sections will damage her standing significantly.Be aware, how ever, that unlessyoupossess do minion in the media field, this can also be do ne to you. Costof do minance:High to Very High.In anycity large enough to sustain a sizable Kindred population, the re will be at least four television stations, twonewspapers and numerousradio stations.Add to that the stories on the ir own initiative, and the difficulties will be obvious. one location once, it takes many more acting in unwitting concert to Many Kindred see the value of having contacts in the media, which makes the task of do minationmore challenging. It makes little difference if you r news director gives or ders that another Kindred countermands to are porterunderhis control;vampiresare substantially more persuasive than humans.It becomes a task of guarding once you have established it as you r own. This is a difficult and consumingtask, but worthconsideration.ncleverhands, the mediais atoolthatcannotberivaled. Cost of Neglect:Catastrophic.The protection of the Masquerade is the primaryroleof the prince. this is virtually impossiblewithoutsome degreeof influence over the media.It is possible torelyonothersto an active and vitalprincedom.with no influence atallinthevarious media outlets, the best that is possibleisamerefigureheadposition, where you areprinceinnameonly. ## Medicine

Importance:Lowto Moderate.Medical influenceis of ten overlooked, but itcanprove tobe avaluable asset if properly utilized.This concept seems toescapemost Kindred, who viewmedical contactsaslittle more than an opportunity to obtain safe and quick, if unpleasant, gunshot wound that enters the ir do or s. This provides an opportunity to suppress an incident and keep it from a wider mortal audience, or to all ow it to pass on to the police and the media. Ghouls and retainers occasionally require medical attention, and the ir masters are of ten grateful. lf you control all access and egress from health care facilities, the irgratitude must fall toyou.Finally, all hospitals have a morgue and an incinerator, making the ultimate disposal of unwanted was te a simple matter. Costof Utility:Low.Most metropolitan hospitals are large, disorganized and understaffed; this is even more pronounced in public facilities. the seconditionsmakeitasimplemattertogainameasureofcontrol measures.ln such large and chaoticenvironments, even control of one or twoorderliescan accomplish much, from bodydisposal toblood storage.In more drastic cases, agents can be used to eliminate may of tenresult in the loss of the agent unless total controlof the facility is you rs. Cost of do minance:Moderate to High.It is simpler to gaincontrol over a single institute than to achievecitywide do minance.Only the most ambitiousandfarsightedindividualswouldevencontemplatethelatter. staff first.do not target the do ctors, but the supportstaff.Itistheywho control the trackingofpatientsandrecords, aswellasadmittingand stock.ndeed, ifyouhavesecured the supportstaff inagivenarea, the do ctors are secondary.The administrators are alsoof vitalimportance, astheysecure the funding and give or derstoall staff members.It is verypossibleto have totalcontrol overa hospital or criticalcarefacility with outsecuring everydoctor.Patienceisvital, how ever;sudden control will arousesuspicion.Once the staff is you rs to command, all that occurswithin the wallsisyourdomain.Bloodmaybestoredfor tables.Additionally, all mortal contactsandagentsofother Kindred eventuallymustseekmedical attention.Oncetheysetfootwithinyour facility, you mayeithercrippleorinconveniencetheplans and operationsofother Kindred, or cause the mtoincurdebttoyou. Costof Neglect:Minimalto Low.this is anarea inwhichdiligence is not vital.the worst that can occurisif agentsortoolsofyoursmustseek treatment.the nitbecomesamatterofassuringtheirdeliverytoan uncontestedfacility, or negotiationwiththosecurrentlycontrolling it. Medicalinfluenceisatbestextremelyuseful, atworstaminorinconvenience. ## Government

Importance:High.The termgovernment is used to describe all facets of publicly controlled and regulated service.This includes, to a degree, utility providers（which fall under the public service commission), the regulatorycommissions, aswell asthejudicial system and the publicly elected governing bodies.As a ruler, it is important tobeable to control those who control the kine.this can not be all owed to fall totally into the hands of another Kindred, for the landscape of the city itself will be against you. Decisions will be undercut by human agency. Prime feeding groundswill bedevalued, quicklybecoming dangerous, or the environs of Elysium will change in ways inappropriate to the atmosphere of safety.A ruler who can not govern the kine will have difficulty gaining respect from the Kindred, who will turn the ir eyes to another who is more capable.Consider the operation of the human agencies in the city equivalent to Wales in regards to competence in governing. lt is a test you can not afford to fail. Costof Utility:Moderateto High.the pricevaries, dependingon the level of redundancyinyourcity.Aswith hospitals, itis the supportstaff that the m.Mostbureaucracieshavearigid hierarchy, making italsoavalid strategy to target the heads of agencies as well. Take carenot toinvest tooheavily inanelected of ficial unlessyoucanbecertainofhis continuedpopularity;careful useofotherinfluencescanhelptoinsure re-election ifproperly applied.Barring that, makeoffice holders by appointment you rgoals.when possessing ameasure of control over twoormore agencies, becertain to useboth toreach acommongoal. Lefttotheirowndevices, the ywillalmostcertainlyworkatoddswith one another.This is the natureof modernbureaucracy. Any Kindredwith either political aspirationsor even awareness is almostcertaintohave atleastone contactwithin the vastgoverning body of the city.Record the se contacts if atall possible, and workto control the m.this is acosteffective methodofnotonlytheagent, but alsowhatinformationreachestheearsofspecific Kindred.this is the idealsituation, bitalsoarareone.ltismuchmorelikelythatthevarious agents and contactswill be unknowntoyou, but will work atoddswith you r plans.do minance assumes that you have the collective might to impressyourwillnotonlyuponthefractioushumans, but alsoonthe Kindred or other for ces that may be controlling the ir actions.Aswith all other are as of interest, do minance requires vigilance on both the human and Kindred for ces.the re are no constants inpolitics. Costof do minance:High to Extremely High. It will not be enough to control the heads of various or ganizations, or even the mayor. The natureofpoliticsis that onecandidatedefinesherself by disagreeing with others, usually acrossparty lines.Recentlyhuman politics has beguntomirrorourown, with asharpdivisionbetweentheestablished careerpoliticians and the newarrivalstothegame.lronically, it is much easiertogaincontrol of the hungrynewcomers than the established how ever. Take care and assess the futureviabilityof anypotential rarelyextendsbeyondasinglefour-yearterm. Cost of Neglect:Extremely High.As previously mentioned, a prince who of ruling the Kindred. So long as no other Kindred do minates, or even comes close to do minion in human politics, you will only be seen as inefficient.this is amajorflawinapublicleader, but itisthebestofall possible problems should you neglect the political are na. Count on embarrassment.the inability to impressyourwill and or dersupon the city will weaken any foundation you might have otherwise built.Should you rselfhostage to her whim.Awaking in the eveningto find you rhaven condemned is the least of you r worries. No prince can ever afford to ignore the political aspects of the kine in his city, and would be welladvised to seek do minion. ## Police

Importance: High to Very High.It is the duty of every police of ficer to maintain or derin the city.this works directly inyour favor, and puts the m easilywithin the parametersofyourvision.the powersofsearch alike, especially asmostactivity takesplace in the sunlight.Arrest warrantsmayeissued, all pointsbulletinsputout, and suspectsheld for special interrogation.the policeforce is aneffective citywidearmy, and itwillbeused.Becertainthatyou are oneof thoseutilizingit, lest you bevictimof itsuse. Costof Utility:Moderate.It takesvery little tomakeauseful contactwith police of ficers are on the take.Civil servants are not or iously underpaid. Itisalmostthecivicdutyofalawandordermindedindividualtofurther the causewith aprivatedonationwhereitwill do the m ostgood.It is a small stepfromeatingoutofyourhandtodrinkingyourblood, and the n they'reyours.Oneor twowell-placed agentscanprovideyouwith the who seorbywhom.This alertsyouto tamperingbyother Kindred, and alsoprovideminorservices, suchasforwardingcopiesoffiles, convenientlylosingorrerouting evidence, harassing a malcontent, or even holding a troublesome anarch inaneastern-facingcell until justpast dawn.Takecarewhenusingyouragents, how ever.Overusemayalert othersthatthey are underyourcontrol, and you could losethem.Police workisaveryhighriskprofession. Costof do minance:High.You mustcontrol the chief of police aswell as precinct and division commandersin or derto assure that you rorders are followed.Itisprobable that such total do minionis unlikelyina single human lifetime, and ghouls inserviceformore than40yearswould attract undue attention.With that inmind, itis advisable toseekout the central administrative arm, the internal affairs division, and eithertotal do minion over either one vital precinct or agents at various levels agents spread throughout the city asmore information maybenetted, but it is a choice based onpersonal style and preference.A moderate levelofpolitical and media influencewill makethisasimplermatter, but by no means simple. Possession of the internal affairs division is an advised choice;it of fersyou the means to neutralize the police agents of other Kindred from with in the system.lfyoumanage to achieve this enviable level of control, all that happenswithinyour do mainwill come against what ever threat you wish. Cost of Neglect: Catastrophic.The situation is similar to neglect of the political are na, only more extreme.Imaginewaking tofindyourbusiperson the subject of an all points bulletin.All of this and more may befall aprincewhodoesnotconcernhimselfwithmaintainingcontact with the civil militia extant in his own city. Unless the prospect of becoming a fugitive inyour own do main appeals toyou, you can not afford toneglect the police for ce. ## Summation

The intent of this brief has been to demonstrate the usefulness of various informational sources and human agencies, either to you as prince, or to you r enemies should you neglect the m.What follows is a prescription for a workable and realistic outline for proper and effective use of the se assets attainable in the relative future.Relative future is defined as20yearsorless. - ·Computers: Utility. - ·Finance:do minion. - ·Nosferatu:Utility. - ·Toreador: Utility. - ·Media:do minion. - ·Medicine: Utility. - ·Government:Utility. - ·Police:Utility. not e that of informational resources, only Financeisrecommended to pursue to the level of do minion.You already possess vast wealth;it would be little matter to turn this into even greater, and would take significantly less effort than to achieve a similar level in the others. Avoid the temptation that computer technology presents, for several personal for tunes can be lost on a single ill-conceived idea.Similarly, neither the Nosferatu nor the Toreador are suggested for favoritism. Any such action would have tobe in the for m of all iances, and an all iance can just as easilybecome a hindrancerather than an asset. with outknowingthespecificsof the clansinyourparticularcitycould not ingoodconsciencerecommendeither.Media do minion is vital to a strong and enduringprincedom, for with it you can control all public information in regardsto the breaking of the Masquerade.Neither the policenorthegovernmentarerecommendedatthis time.Should it negative, should be sufficientmeans bywhich to achieve you r ends. BG B00KY

FUNWITH

VOL

GRAPEFRUIT are EOS

CSAT

RONAL

HOLES

SPIDER

NECRONOMI

VOL

## A Treatise on Conflict: HOW CLAN TREMERE MAY EXERCISE THE GREATEST UTILITY from ITS ENEMIES. BY UDOLFO

It is verifiablefactthatthoseonthepathofrighteousnesswillbemetwith resistancefrom the unenlightened.the wisetravelerrealizesthat every obstacleis the clan.this will serve as an introductory lesson in the art of conflictmanagement for thosewho aspire topolitical greatness. ## ENEMIES with IN

Conflictis anundeniablefacetofourexistence.all of us, whethercollectively or as individuals, are constantly seeking gain at the expense of others.with in Kindred society,I shall examine conflict from all perspectives, with an eye to

## THE PRIMOGEN

Traditionally the primogen are comprisedof the eldestmembersof the seven clans.the re are a fewgeographical aberrations, but this definition is sufficiently accepted to stand. the se elders are the leaders of the city by default;having survivedfor centuries, they are powerful beyond the capabilities of the you nger Kindred, and thus demand respect.Weak princesrule with permission granted from the primogen, and wiseprincesconsultwith the mregularlyto avoidsedition. Nonetheless, the primogen do not easily set aside the perspectives of the irvarious clans.Indeed, it is much rarer for any consensus to last beyond the duration of any given crisis. The most powerful members of the ir clans, the primogen can be an impedi ment to progress.Each primogen member has the authority and influence to turn her entire clan against the dictates of any other member, even the prince. the refore, awiseleaderwill playoneagainstanother, keepinghimselfclearof the fray.for example, the reis little lovelost between the Toreador and the Nosferatu; the for merseesonlysurface, and the latterseesall toomuch of the for mer.Itwould be a small matter to arrange for members of each clan to spend time with one another.The inevitable will happen, and someone will take umbrage.While the one or bothwould have blocked had they not been preoccupied.Putmore plainly, it is wisetocultivateextremityintheprimogen, sothattherewill alwaysbeatleast

## ELDERS AND ANARCHS

Itisasadtruththatmanychilderoftheotherclansdonotrecognizethesuperior wisdomoftheelders.this is atestamenttothefoolishlyweakeninginfluenceof modernegalitarianismsopopularamongthekine.Manymodernchilderareeither unableorunwillingtoabandontheill-conceivedandoutmodedideasoftheirmortal life and seekarepublicanidealfor Kindredsociety.this is not ourway, norshallit everbe.the seyoungsters are for ces of chaoswithinoursociety, and they have been labeledanarchsbecauseofthis. the primary mistake the se anarchsmake is assuming that the re are certain natural rights inherent in our existence.This is preposterous; they would not even exist were itnotfor the beneficence of the ir sires.Nonetheless, we liveina meritocracy, where the primarymerits are patienceandcontinuedexistence.As the morerashelementswitheraway, the meritsofstabilitywillbegintobearfruit. It is noaccident that mostelders are cautious and calm. Despitetheirdisruptiveintentions, the anarchsoftenserveasaunifyingforce for rational Kindred.Byvirtueof the ir ownwritings and speeches, the anarchsare a threattoourwayof life.Inlightof this, itbecomesnecessaryfrom timetotime toband together and put the m again in the irproper place.This is the prince's primaryfunction.Internal threats are infinitelymore damaginganddangerousthan external foes.how ever, should heprove tobe too efficient at this, others may for get his necessity. the refore, it is of ten wise to all ow the anarchs to gain in strength and number so that they become a threat.After the coalition to destroy clansatleastfollow the pretenseofworkingtogethertofurthertheircommon interests.Similarly, if the elders among us grow tobe toopowerful and threaten to unbalancethe fragilecoalition that all ows us toexist, anarchscan beused to divert the m.A wise princewould encourage this cyclical growth, all owing first one and the n the other to gain power, only to be brought into line by the other. ## INTERCLANSTRIFE

Just as the primogen are prone to squabbling, so too are the ir respective clans. Some of the sereasons go back millennia, such as the antipathy between clans Brujah and Ventrue.Others are based on ideological differences or simple aesthet ics.Nonetheless, the tensionexists.Ifonecan avoidbeing drawn into it against ones will, it is a for ce that can at times be harnessed.It is quite similar to or ganizing strife between the primogen members, only simpler;the re are many more individualsinvolved, more of ten than not with out the benefitofperspective and wisdom that age may bring the ir elders. Care should be taken, how ever, not to all ow the tension to erupt into full-scalewar.Before all owingthestrifeto escalate, one must be relatively certain one can put an end to it.This is of ten as simple as calling ameeting of the primogen and explainingto the eldersof the warringclans or if it fails, one should be certain to be able to weather the brief but intense firestorm of street combat.for members of ourillustrious clan, such is a simple matter. ## PATRICIANVS.PLEBEIAN

It is the n atureofexistencethatahierarchywill assertitself inanysystem, and Kindred are noexception.Inregardstosociallife, the reisamarked distinction between thosewhoexcel and belongand thosewhodonot.the groupof the for meris, of course, comprised of the Tremere, the Ventrueand the Toreador. Othersfromdifferentclansmaybelongbutthisisasrareasoneoftheaboveeither choosing or beingcastout of the upper echelon of social life.Those belonging to the lattergroup are the Nosferatu, the Brujah, the Malkavians and the Gangrel. Clearlymalformed, the Nosferatuhavethegoodgraceanddiscretiontoremove the mselvesfrompubliclife.the Malkavians, thoughoften timesinterestingand insightful creatures, are too unpredictable and unstabletobe all owed inproper salons and Elysia on a regular basis. The Gangrel rarely wish to make the social

Despitetheclearandobviousreasonsforthedistinction, thoseoftheplebeian castedonotaccepttheirlotwithgrace, even thoughtheirfatewas of tenone of choice.Envyis everthelotofthosewho are inferior, and itfuelsaseethinghatred that can bemanipulated.Aswithinterclan strife, how ever, itisacard that should beinfrequentlyplayed.Classwarfarehasdestroyedmuch of the modernworld, and continuesto do sointothenextmillennium.Itcannotbeallowed to do the same for ourkind.this for mofstrifeisbestsuitedforourclantoutilize, for wetendto remain with drawnfromsocialgatherings, evenwhenpresent.the Ventrueand Toreador, owever, are extraordinarilyroudof the irstatus, and they will dfend it ferociously.If troubleis all owedtooccur, itwilltakelittletostart it.the Brujah can be depended on for joining in, and the Nosferatu usually can not resist tormentingthe Toreador.this will serve asaratherlargeandunseemly smoke screen, but itisquiteeffectiveinmaskingwhateverlargescaleactionmustbetaken with outtheknowledgeorinterferenceoftheothers.Similarly, itisariskygambit, but reluctant kudosmaybe of fered toonewho can for m somesortofpeace once tempersareallowedtoflareandoldfeuds are rekindled.Duetothenatureofrisk involved, how ever, it is not advised;the re are other, more stable ways to gain respectand prestigefrom thosereluctantto tender it. ## ENEMIES with OUT

Though itoftenseemsthatwe are ourown worst enemies, wewouldbewelladvised to remember threats from with out.the re are many who wish our society ill, beit others of ourkind bent onnihilisticperversity, the kine that weso of ten take for granted, rampaging shapeshiftersbent on destruction, or peculiarly al ented humans and magi who had not the wisdom to follow us into our current and superior for m.Nonetheless, great care should be taken in exercising any of the se threats, for none of the se enemies have anyreason to be trustworthy, much less cooperative.At the veryeast, Camarillavampireshave the sustenance and survival of ourway of life incommon.Ourexternal enemieshavenothing of the sort tobind the m to us. ## THE SABBAT the secretinousvermin are beneathcontempt, and should beexterminated when ever possible.This is especially true of the traitorous animals that call the mselves Tremereantitribu.how ever, ifitisnotpossibletoannihilatethem, or if it is not politicallyfeasible, have othersdoitforyou.the Brujahareimminently fearofrepercussionforanypartyinvolved.Evenanarchsseemreadytodefendtheir citiesfrom the semonsters.No matter who passes away, it is avictoryfor the Camarilla. of moreworththanactual Sabbat, and infinitelysafer, is the rumorof Sabbat activity.with aknownwolf atthedoor, malcontentsarereluctanttoweaken anything that may serve as a defenseagainst the greatest threat tothe Camarillaway of existence.Careshouldbetakeninmanufacturing Sabbatsightings, how ever, for should the ybediscoveredtobefalseallfuturecredibilitymaybelost.Moretothe point, Kindredmayprovereluctanttorespond toan actualreport.this is much morethreateningthan anylossofstatus;Camarillacitiesmustnotfall tothesefoul a Sabbatincursionistomagnifyactualevents.Small bandsof Kindred, who typically have littleornoregardforthe Masquerade, are knowntoroam the outlandsand beyond.whether the yare anarchsorthe Sabbat, morewill respondtoaccusations of the latter than the for mer.do not makethemistakeof manyprinces and elders, how ever. they accuse all radical Kindred, in particular childer with anarch sympathies, of being Sabbatspies.Unlessthereissomeshredofevidence, avoid this cheap tactic.The bogeyman becomes much less threatening if he is invoked toooften, particularlyforobviouspolitical ends. ## KINE

Thoughsimplecreatureswithnopatienceorvision, itisunwisetooverlookth threat kine bear to our race.The Masquerade is the first Tradition; neverforget that. Individually they may prove occasionally enterprising and difficult, yet they are inherentlyweaker creatures.Nevertheless, they outnumber us by several or dersof magnitude, and whileit is a simplematter todispatchone, or even several, fewof us could survive a mob, much less worldwide exposure.The latter is the gravest danger they pose.Be aware of this when using kine against one's enemies. The safest and most effective use of humans is to mercilessly harry one's enemies.when dealingwithindividualsorofficialsof or der policeofficers, utility workers, government of ficials and private investigators) the primary fear any Kindred should have is that of the Masquerade.this fear of exposure, combined for a very effective and unnerving encounter. Several such encounters in rapid succession will unravel even the most resolute elder.Some have been known to vacate cities in response to just such harassment.not e that I do not speakof ghouls and otherretainers, who have beenbrought into ourworld and societybyvirtue of the knowledge that weexist.Anywho can not use suchreadily available tools is beyondinstruction. ## SHAPESHIFTERS the secreaturesareindividuallymoredangerousthanthe Sabbat.Asweareto humans, so are they to us.what knowledgehas been gleaned from survived encounterswith this race of homicidal proteanshasledtotheconclusion that they bearus an irrational, religioushatred that can onlybe satiatedwithour total destruction.Unfortunately, welackthemighttodemandacompromiseaswas do newith the Assamites.the citiesareour do mains, the wilderness the irs.Great careshouldbetakenwithanyattempttousethesecreaturesagainstone'senemies, for the yare holywarriors against uswhoare as likely tokillboth the target and he maintenanceoforder. Becauseitisknown that they roamthewildareasbetweenenclavesof civilization, intercitytrafficofourkindisextremelylimited.this is truetosuchan extentthatitisrelativelyeasytotrackallwhoenterorleave, and itfostersasense of siegementality, particularlywhen the Lupines have attacked inrecentmemory. the ymakeaveryserviceableswordof Damocles, encouragingotherstowork togetherwhenotherwisetheywouldnot.for tunately, itappearsthattheseshape shifters are moreoccupiedwithinternal strife and other concernsto turn the irfull attentiontous, aneventualitythatshouldchill the bloodofany Kindred. ## MAGIAND OTHERMYTHICCREATURES

Itappearsthattheforcesofmagicarereturningtotheworld, ifreportsareto bebelieved.Humansareagaincastingcantrips, sometimeswithstartlinglyeficient results.Reports, all from reputablewitnesses, have alsoregisteredsuchcreaturesas satyrs, demons, ghostsandwyrms.If atallossible, avoidthese, for they wield powersunknowntous, and have arangeofmotilitybeyondourownnocturnal anysuchcontactimmediatelytoyoursuperiors. Evenrumorcanserve, how ever.Activitiescanbemasked asundertakingsby the se classes of beings, especiallyifthe imagination has been sown with rumors and phenomena beforehand. Little is more gratifying than witnessing one's enemies run the mselves into exhaustion while attempting to find an enemy that do es not exist.for tune will surely smile upon you of they do indeed run afoul of the creatures they believe to be atfault, for carnagewillmost likelyensueandyourenemieswillbe ill-equipped to defend against unknown powers. This treatise has been general by design, hopingmore to set the mind atwork, rather than provide a blueprint to be copied who lesale.the re is no such adversity, except perhaps the final death, which can not be turned into an asset.If no other lesson is to be learned than this alone, all has not been in vain. In the service of the greater glory of Clan Tremere, Udolfo

## Rare Books

## NEWAND USEDMANUSCRIPTS

Unusual Grimoires-Personal Papers Alchemical Texts-Uncommon Antiquities Creative Acquisitions upon Request Demonstrations by Appointment Only

Ask about our search service

Phoenix,AZ

602-555-1024

Visit our web page @ http://dgw.rarebooks.com

Ly hencloedmanusrupt was taken fom the bodyoa caiffouieas atced uenguetoned.Hesre bepore dying that hewas commiioned byapowerul but un named indiridualto delrer il to yet another courier at the Are drumph Fdisaeapaly, baundrong hough yomighbinerested in thibonsider a g

As requested by Monsieur P., here is my general analysis of the clans and the ir probable reactions to the ascension of a new prince. Ht would seem to be a simple matter to extrapolate the reactions to a proposed king, as well increase the negative by the same or der of magnitude that the positive is decreased. Again, 7 urge Monsieur P. can tion; time will in no way diminish the validity of his claims. michel

## On the Leading of the Clans

Kindred society is much like a synthesis of the medieval guild system and the aristocracy of Europe until the early 2oth century.Power and influence are grouped according tomembershipin a familially structured group known as the clan.the se clans are not lineages in any standard sense, but more a collection of individuals infected with identical viruses that are, with minor exceptions, identical to the viruses of the otherclangroups.Itisaround the se diffrences, owever, that family groups are for med.he delineation of the virus and its wide scale morphological and behavioral effects are the subject of another inquiry. Only those aspects pertinent to the discussion of the political and social structure of the Kindred shall be addressed herein. what followsis an analysisof the seventribe groups that comprise the majority of the Camarilla and the ir responses to and views on the institute of princedom. In the ir dealingswithoneanother, the tribegroupsclustertowhattheyperceiveaslike, recreating the aristocratichierarchy common throughoutmuch of history.As political dfinitions, the rujah, Gangrel, Malkavian and Nosferatu clansmake the "lower four,"while the Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue comprise the"upper three.To speak broadly about familial and cultural groups among humans would be extremely prejudicial, and reflectmore of the speaker's perspective than any meaningful observation concerning the subject.To speak so of Kindred groups is significantlyless prejudicial;oneisnotbornintoaclan, but is chosen tojoin.Such choice is usuallybased upon a degree of sympathy between the infector and the infected. Traditional history, both or al and written, classifies Kindred into13 groupings, eachnamedafteramythic, historicallysuspect sireordam, reflectingtheadolescen desire for validation and the tidy answer to the teleologically troubling question of existence.That each sire or dam traces lineage back to the biblical Caine[sic]is a clear exampleof the internalizationofpersecution, namely that the afflicted are indeed terrifying predators cursed to be the eternal "other." The similarities to social and political outcasts among humanity, the"unafflicted,"are clear.What we are left with is a society that is comprised of individuals who expend a great deal of self-definitionaleffortinsettingthemselvesapart, attemptingtocometogetheron the basis of similarity.Itis little wonder that Kindred societyis not or iouslyunstable. ## Brujah the se Kindred are bound together primarily bytheir rebellious nature, a nature that is only increased by the most marked behavioral symptom of vampirism.they is mostoften the preferred means of discourse.Individually or asa group, they are iconoclastic.Itis little surprise that the vast majority of the anarchs come from this clan. Any hierarchical system of government is by definition discriminatory.Power in a closed system is limited; those with it wish to accumulate more at the expense of thosewith less.In Kindred society, itskews heavily toward the eldest, in asystem not unlikeothertronglyfilial societiesherujahareolitical dilettantesriin the wave of what everideology is prominent among humanity.As this is the modern, postmonarchical age in the West, it should come as little surprise that this clan heavily favors a republican or democratic for m of government, as opposed to the institutional despotism that has been the norm for centuries among our kind.It is a smallmatter to lure members of this clan to the sides of change and revolt, but it is much more difficult to for m any sustainable coalition with the m once power has been attained.The failure of the soviet experiment demonstrates the ir instability even when they alone are in charge. If seeking to recruit members of this clan, approach the ir elders with respect. A degree of personal bravado is expected as well.Do not treat the m as the leather clad hooligans the irchilderoften are;many of the seelders are quite literate and well informed. Present arguments in a direct manner, but do not expect the m to go unchallenged; this is not a clan of followers.If you can make a favorable showing in debate, you may gain the respect of the elders.This is a much simpler and more elegant waythan demonstrating physical superioritytothe gang-like packs of you ng Brujah who seem content with turf warfare and an arbitrary system of renown based on daring and combat.Take care to stress the role of clan advisors and the role of the primogen.Choose terms that all ude to council based government.Above all, give the m something other than you rself to rebel against. What do we want?Only sometbing you'll nevergive:freedom.Eternity isn't about kissingbuttandbeingatoadyitsabouteithermakingitrfailingnyourownmerits.ut the nI guessyou wouldn't understand that, would you?all princes are goingtofall sooner or laterbecausetherearemoreofusthanthereareofthem, and were gainingmoreevery day.The tyrants today, the smooth talkers tomorrow, and the"benign"a despotsattheend. Of course, if they're really benign, they'll see tbat we're rigbt... ## Gangrel of all the triberoups, the se are the m ostindependent, solitaryandselfreliant. the yinsist on defining the mselves as a collection of individuals, and never as a cohesiveunit.If the Brujaharepackminded, the Gangrelaresolitary nomads.Like many othernomadicsocieties, the yhavea long-established or al tradition.When two or more Gangrel meet, it will be an evening of long stories, relatingpersonal observations and hearsay.If one Gangrel speakswell of you, itwill soon pass to othersthrough this method. The Gangrel value the ir autonomy above all else.It is unspoken tradition to all owthemfreeentry into and exitfromall Camarillacities, and with goodreason. Well-disposed, the yarea sourceofinformationfromothercitiesandtheoutlan where most of our kind fear toventure.Angered, they are individually some of the most combat-capable Kindred tobe found.If many are angered, even Brujah give the m wideberth.Secondarily, the yareintensely concerned with nature and justice, the for mermost of ten incollusionwith the latter.the irsense of justice is powerful, though of ten biblical in its harshness. The simplest manner of avoiding the ir wrath is to be just when dealing with the m. they do not of ten care for politics or intrigue; do not bring the m into it administration, they may temporarily joinin opposing it.Most Gangrel have little truck with princes, and they prefer tokeep it that way.Do not for ce the m to take not ice of you. What do the Gangrel want?This Gangrel just wants to be left alonefor the most part. Icome and goas Iplease becauseI'mnotafraidofwbat liesoutsidethecities.Sitinthemand scheme for all I care, but don't dragmeinto it.Rememberthat Igo where you re afraidto go, and dealwitwhatyoureafraidtodealwit, daeareerynigt.Thinbardabout that. ## Malkavian

Similar to the Brujah, the se Kindred are also deeply affected byvampirism behaviorally.Unlike the Brujah, how ever, who share a common mental affliction, the Malkavians each suffer from a unique affliction not unlike those found in humanity.While actual numbers of the human"insane"are still being debated, it can be assumed that significantly less than the majority possess those negative mental states that thosein power deem dangerous to social or der.With the se Kindred, all are marked aberrationsfrom the joint construct of sanity.Members of this clan work togetherwith deceptive ease in spiteof (or perhaps because of) the ir differingmental perspectives.Many Kindredignore Malkavians, onlytofall victim to elaborate pranks that demonstrate afrightening degree of personal knowledge concerning the ir person and habits.Insanity is a shroud of incredible use. Regarding the instituteofprincedom, Malkavians do not speakwith a unified voice.Some numberas anarchs, and some are staunchlyconservative.of tenonewill findindividuals from either extremeofthepolitical spectrum sharingpleasant conversation;compartmentalization of differences seems to be acommon asset.A common mistake in dealingwith Malkavians is persecuting the entire clan for a collection of minor inconveniences and annoyances.not hing will mobilize the most persecuted of clans against a princefaster than a blanket accusation against the m.Deal with eachas anindividual, and informeldersofactionagainstmembers of the ir clan.Even a modicum of gentility and respect, if not perceived as condescension, may earn goodwill.Avoid persecution, discourageit from others and asidefromtheoccasional disturbance, you should expectno troublefromthis clan. Sotbeturtlebascome tothecuckoo, basshe?how interesting...Wbatdoesthekingof you know better than they, eh? all she surveyswishofthislittlegnat?Oh, teprincedom.I've of tenfound that manyare only10or11incbe;the yfallshort.Besureoureall12, and the firststpisrealiingtbat you can't do it alone.the re are powerslarger than you rself tbat you bave to consider.But the nwhy sbouldyoulistentome?Nooneelselistenstotbelittlemanintberefrigeratorwbo workssobardtokeepthelightonwhenitshouldbeonandoffwhenitshouldbeoff.Maybe

## Nosferatu

As a class, none are morereadily discernible than the Nosferatu.Eachiswarped by the process of change, clearly marking the ir lineage.the ir abilities at obfusca tion, bothvisually and informationally, can beseen asablessing, all owingthemo disguise the marks of the ir "affliction. how ever, the re is a growing movement to deny the necessity of hiding the ir visages from other Kindred.The direction and degree of cultural transference in the idea of reclaiming words and ideas that were previously prejudicial and culturally harmful is an interesting question; are riot grrls,"queers" and racial minorities following the example of the ir comrades in oppression, or have the Nosferatu appropriated human cultural ideas and implemented the m?what ever the or igin, this clan possesses a sense of unity that is one based on visual commonality and negative value assigned the ir"curse." they are a do main-in are as that others are loath to explore.the Nosferatu have long been the for erunners among Kindred societyin shifting to the information economy;the tradeof secrets has been the ir do mainfor centuries, where as humanity has only begun inthe past several decades the who lesale shift to this medium.With the rapid developmentincommunicationtechnology, bothare advancing at aneveracceleratingrate. As informationbrokers, it is vital to have a good businessrelationshipwith the Nosferatu.this is the veryleast.Better stillisto have the mforallies, though they do not givetheir loyalty lightly or cheaply.One point that is fundamentalin dealing with the mis that of do main.Centuries of precedenthaveestablished the Second Tradition to apply to the prince and the princedom, yet the Nosferatu claim the sewers as the ir own.Grant this, for itis a small thingto give, yet the price for with holdingit is incalculable.The prospect of aninvisible cadre of spiesworking diligently and efficiently against you should give substantial pause.Treat the m as equals, thoughitmay dismaymembersoftheself-styledrulingeliteclans.Centuries of abuse and discrimination have made the m suspicious of kindness.Be persistent, Thoughit should nevercome to anexclusive situation, Iwould adviseextremely careful consideration of the worth of the totality of the"upper three"versus the Nosferatualone. Yawannaknowthings?Yacametotherigbtplace, the n.Mostfolksdo, soonerorlater, at leasttemartes Takaseat.eah, atreallyisahai.inceueyre oneswbopaintthisbigdesignofconcentricredan'wbitecirclesalloverthemselves.Inever understoodthepoint, but mnofasbionexpert.Hub, you did nttakethebait.Anyway, the yretheonesthattrytoruntingsonlymostbiteoffalotmorethanheycanchew.ust causetheybaveatitledoesn'tmeantheycandostuffespeciallynotunilateraly.Ittakesgood informationtomakegooddecisions.Icanseeyoureoneoftheonestbatgetthissimplebut vitalpoint.Now let'stalkaboutprice... ## Toreador a capacity for a fugue-like appreciation or absorption with the beautiful that is the well-known and of ten mocked weakness of the Toreador. Despite the Romantic connotations, noreferenceto toro or to Spanish or iginare partoftheoraland written the who lesale rejection of it.the se reactions, properties of the artiste and poseur that which do minates the individual.It is not hing more than working with in the "system,"or rejecting it who lesale. Beauty is the curse and blessing of this clan.The vampiric condition engenders traditionof the se Kindred.This is the precondition for the irobsession with art, or

Toreador are social creatures. they of ten behave as nouveau riche striving to master the salon culture they believe to be the ir duty, much like the subjects of television melodramas. they have internalized an aesthetic of the ir elders, most with out considering the benefits and restrictions. The opposite extremeis that of the tortured artist, the Byronic herowhomust sufferfor his artin an attempt torecreate as a capriciousmuse the petty tyrant that controls hisperceptions.Despite the irpositiononthepolaric scale, all Toreadorare primarily concerned with beauty and the artificial attempt to create it. Politically, they seek protectionfor and access to the seworks and the environments that create the m.Any all iance with the m must take the se factors into consideration.You do more than you rpoliticalaspirations afavorbyvirtueofpatronage, but you must take care not to patronize one artist, medium, or localeto such an extent as to slight others.The Toreador are quite sensitive to slight, whether intentional or perceptual.If at all possible, portray the previous or extant prince as indifferent or antagonistic to the arts. This task should be a relatively simple matter, as most princes are more consumed with the nightly operation of the ir do main than with the status of a particular artist. Take pains not to fall victim to this you rself.If the previousprincewas known as apatron, the bestyoucanhopeforis that the Toreador will not take sides inthepolitical are na.If they do, the ywill standwith the known patron. Obviouslywewant somedereeofafetybtnotstiflingcontrol.Hwcanartflouris when rigidity is the n or m?Tbere is no art the n, only cleverrendering.the remustbesome degreeofriskintheair, some feeling that anythingcould bappen.Creativity demandsno less.of course, wedonotwishforstreetwarfareor Machiavellianbackbiting:trespasse Wit, bowever...do not confusefeeblescbemingfortruewit, for onlyafoolseesnodifference.Which remindsme, did you bearwhatacertainbigblyplaced Ventruesaidattheoperalastnight...? ## Tremere

Despite the shroud of archaic mystery and hermetism, the Tremere are by definition the most modern of all the clans.Unlike the other clans, the re is no inherent flaw specific to the Tremere as a result of the vampiric condition.Nor is the re a mythic, pre-Cambrian progenitor and creation myth. the ir founder is extant, ifreclusive.Iftheirclaimsaretobebelieved, the initialranksofthe Tremre were chosen from the ranks of literate, analytical natural scientists of the ir day. Certainly not devoid of any superstition the mselves, one can not help but wonder if the ir actofself-creation, distinctlyseparatefrom the othershasfreed the mfromthe instinctually supported myth.All restraint and limitation are derived from social structure, and are clearly recognized as constructs. The Tremere are a reclusive and mysterious clan, and wish to remain so. Rumors of dark and sinister experiments constantly surround this clan; do not investigate the m too thoroughly, lest you earn the ir enmity.all ow the m the ir secretsuntil so do ing becomes politically untenable, or until they transgress the traditions.Politicallyconservative, the yfavor or deroverall else.should you be able tomake substantive progress toward stability, ifnotnominal eace, he Tremere should supportyou If, how ever, you wishtounseat acompetent, thoughstiflin prince, the ywill all yagainstyou, preferringtheknowntotheunknown ifitisbeyond the ir control.Be very waryofaccepting gifts or aid from the m;the Tremere are wellknown for the ir abilitytooffer proper assistance atcriticalmoments.Thoughitmay prove tobeuseful, even vital, the eventual pricefor such aidwill becommensurate to this value. Once in power, the Tremere will s support you so longasthe Masqueradeismaintained.ewary of angeringthem, for thoughyourorganization or derisof primary importance to Clan Tremere.Noneofus are safeifthe Masquerade is broken.Discipline is paramount; those in charge can not afford the luxury of compassion. Leave that for mortals.Our way requires more.What we seek in a prince is the ability to seeour society as a collective, awbole, ratber than a collectionoffractious and vocal individuals.Iffewmustbecastasidesothatthesafetyoftherestareassured, the nsobeit. Naturally, the mostviolentandchaoticamonguswouldbethelogicalchoiceforsuchanact of selflesssacrifice.Neverletitbesaidtbattheanarchsarewbollywithoutmerit. ## Ventrue

Exclusivity personified, or perhapsvilified.Though the changeswrought by vampirism in members of this clan have been debated as being both physical and behavioral, more recent inquiries ocus on the mental aspect, specificallyntal ization.The ruling classes throughout history have beenknown for discrimination, whether genuine or affected.In the Ventrue, this discrimination has reached its ultimate peak:the ability to ingest only certain blood from certain individuals. Curiously, the re is no pattern to this exclusivity savewhatmightbe gleaned from a deep knowledge of the particular Ventrue.Most are aware of this, and guard the mselves against any true degree of closeness lest the ir individual weakness be disclosed.This level of caution borders on the paranoid;it is as if each member of this clan, known tofrequentlyfill leadershippositions, assumes the distance that is commonbetweentrueleadersandtheirflock. This personal distance manifests as a conservatism that surpasses any in either human or Kindred not of the Ventrue clan.This extends to both the personal and the institutional Members are accustomed topositions of supremacy, n particular the trappings that of ten accompany such positions. Wealth is synonymous with security, and it is flaunted with unconscious ease as the one visible distinction approach and plodding pace of achievement makes recruitment of the se Kindred a difficult task.No action will be taken unless it is clear that the chances for success far outstrip the possibility of failure;Ventrue are not known as gamblers or risk takers. Cast careful and precise plans, ouline each contingency, and Ventrue will listen Tradition, aswell astheraditions, are of paramountmportance to this lan. Be certain to make you rself more appealing on the se grounds than the previous priceillaa slightlymoreresistance from this clan.Eachmember harbors a secretbelief that he or shewouldbeabetterruler than anyotherandhasaronal listfflawsand mistakes that known sovereign have made.Appeal to the existence of this list with out making specific reference to it.Revealing too great a degree of personal knowledge pathological. Once in a position of leadership, patience and care are the keys to dealing with the Ventrue.The anticipation of perceived flaws implies the correction and avoidance of the m.Above all else, do not appear asrash and headstrong Work to secure the safety of the Ventrue, and they will follow. Aprinceshouldbemanythings:ashiningexampleofnoblesseoblige, asavvynegotiatr, arutblessandefcientenforerofurlawsandacarefulstratgistwithdeepknwledf current ndutuetrndhesecritriaareonngotiablaingbeenpovenesary and suffcient overecenturie Decorumisonlylgbtly lessmortant, but itslackingmay beoverlookedifitisnot toogreat and the otberrequrementsaremet.of course, most Ventruewortbyofthatnamepossessallofthesetraits, and were cbosentojoinourrankson the basisoftheircloseness to this ideal.Wetypicallyrulecities for are ason, you know. It is my hope, Monsieur P., that this treatise may serve you r needs.Knowledge of the clans, the particularsofthevampiricstatethatdefinethemastribegroups, and how the se particular traits have been dealt with historically, gives a significant amount of information about the outlookof each.A careful approach, based on this knowledge and couched in terms to appeal to the intended target, would increase you r chances of success.how ever, letme urge caution in this matter.Patience has ever beenavirtue of you r line, with the few exceptions serving as awarning in the ir failure.all ow the or ganization to grow slowly until such time as all agents can combine the ir power and expertise to achieve you r ends.The goal itself is noble; I would bemore loath to see it fail than my personal involvement alone could account for. As ever,I am you rs to command. M.F. ill the FOLLOWING PAGESNERE FOUND IN the PERSONAL EFFECTSOFLODINLATE PRINCEOFCHICAGO HANDWRITTENONAGED PARCHMENTTHEYWERE OBVIOUSLY QUTE OLD AND WELLCAREDFoR,THOUGH TTHECRACKEDLEATHER FOLIOTHATPROTECTED the M APPEAREDTOHAVE BEEN SCORCHEDBYFRE

K.M.G. t Uell, Maxwell, realize that the transition is a busy time, and that you have many enemies to pursue and critics to silence in the days ahead.owever, it is my hope that you will take the time to listen at the knee of one who has made the mistakes he cautions you against. tseems that you have finally attainedthe position that ringing yith the congratulations of you r contemporaries. Fear not, this shall not add to the ir number. Despite shat the more ambitious Kindred advisors may tellyou, the actualrunning of a cityiseasy.tyou can attain the position by virtue o anything other than sheer luch, the n you have already e established a model for the nightly operationofyour prize. for get for the m oment clan strife, the antipathy b tor can discern yays to deal with the se problems. Dnstead, Dshall define three are nas in shich it is vital to establish you r do minance: the publie, the personal and the private. ## the ublic Face

Vthas been called many things: the persona, the facade and countless others. Che public face is omething that most ear, though few ever shape it to meet the ir needs. This is the are na that most usually associate with a prince.As a leader who wishes to survive for any length of time, you apathy and indifference. best policy; the for mer out of ignorance or naivete, and the latter outof I an active desire to de you ill. you possess, and do not be afraid to discard that which no lenger serves. Do not be has ty in this, Maxwell; patience has never been one of you r virtues. think of it, the n, as consider all options. may ican see it, others can as yellhey will use it asa hook, wanted curiosity. erhaps the se generalities are confusing. Let me otfer more, he truly wishes to believe the best about others, despite the lessons to the contrary that experience and time have sure gou will agree that it is not much to work ith, but it serves for my purposes. to be you r undoing.ever, ever present anyone yith a true of any weakness; that sill only arouse suspicion and un Do not be seamless, no matter hou hard be certain to have several artificial solutions prepared. The first weakness is relatively simple to disguise. be fatal. An acceptable response ghen confronted with a not silling to dealwith is silence, punctuated aith either a steely glare or seeming indifference. As the silence stretches, the supplicant should become uncomfortable. sufficient, t the n ask the presenter of the problem hou he you ld suggest that you deal yith it. executed correctly, this ploy will shift the weight of the situation from you r should ers to his, for he will asume that he presented you vith information that you already possess, and that you are nou testing his suggested answer.akenote, Maxwell; everyone has secrets that weigh heavily on the ir consciences. edgethan gouactually do, the yvill become fearful, and go to great lengths to cover the ir sins. you are particularly astute, you may gain leverage on the supplicant sho un it is the re that his secret lies, unless he is more adept at this

As for wishing to believe the best of others, this is a severe such a dire handicap: laziness and stupidity. Lariness is is aluxury that feu of our kindmay indulgein, yetnone who attainsa position of do minance can harbor this frailty and long survive. Discoveruhatthey ualue, shat they hate, and sho sets the mselves with and against take a leson from the lunatics, and try to the m. place you rself inside the ir minds. think as they think, plot as interes overuc. rbing trend in reoe or ce, if any, will come to do minate Austin.Our agents have had but t for ecasting the city's political climate. A closer look at Los Angeles confirms that the anarchs are a danger to the Camarilla Ontheotherhand, the Anarch Free Statesdeinitelygoing tobeahort lived problem.Chaos is the rule here, and the Masquerade is broken nightly.The defacto leaders are already grumbling about having to cover up the mistakes of others.Soon they will have more in common with the elders of Camarilla cities than with the ir revolutionary comrades.This is what happens when you try to build upon a dream alone. with out structure and experience, this experiment will fail. My prediction is 20 years at most. they plot.Dt you r int for mation is accurate, you may gain do lt sho can not conceive of malice in others, am certain that the more pragmatic of our kind zill do you the kind favor of removing you from the stage of politic.Chey sill dead ones. Worse than lack of vision, how ever, is blindnes. Chose sho strive to straddle fences to retain the ir gilded thrones are at least aware of the shifting for ces around the m; they Realots are not so bound to the realities of our Chey see naught but the perfect world of the ir existence. action. uity, hich is certainly a noble goal.owever, our prince is so blinded by his dream that he sees and can think of little circumstances, but on an ideal shich do es not exist. t Uearing such fetters, our prince can not be proactive to any real those sho are aiare of his dream. Che worst he can expect is death. Mou to the obsession, the vision of the perfect city that our hypothetical prince is accosted by.all leaders of merit must possess visioni sithout it they are not hing more than a bark in a tempest, being moved in various directions by followingt this course, having become more concerned sith maintaining shall not become one of the ir number. D uill correct this mistake personally if need be. trust gou recall hat a harsh teacher D can be. Clearly the wise prince would fall betuseen the se too extremes. rare.ne finds in the ir place petty despots and paranoid bureaucrats.urprince should combine the political sauvy f those yho are only concerned with maintenance and the dedicationofthezealots.Heshould take wisdom from the 10 ancients: Moderation in all things. ## Crafting the Facade

Nou that our prince has realistic flauo, let us consider his strengths. the se shall serve as the skeleton of the persona that we shall shapet tenacity egual to the solverine indigenous to you r nen home.He shall also posessa strength of will and anactive guite effective. He shall be a learned man, a product of continental Finally, let us aosume heisofa scholarly breed with apast

Anticipate the reactions of others, Maxusell.lace certainly not Jou should depend on being with others. fiery ideologue. ever be what others expect of you, unless be lulled into complacency by the proper presentation of the ir ouwn expectaticn. sithout being observed himself if he plays the part of the short tempered dilettante, get he must be aware of what he much easier to return to type having presented an unexpected face, rather than vice versa. nature that, yhen used in concert, proves to be g so long and glorious that fen can recall it, and only see him are not inconseguential merits, and can prove to be an effective foundation. such.Do not overlook mortal prejudices in this matter. you r contemporaries still insist on seeing you as an inferior merely due to the continent of you r ancestry, they ill have crafted a hurdlle for the mselves that you must exploit. Blood knous no color, nor do es it knou gender.f t they education and you r grasp of culture. OHtert the m not a spartan sar room, but a civilized parlor. e polite, especially shen they are expecting a abruptness or anger. himself as one well cultured, e even tempered and polite. Otherswillsee him as either an aberration, a break from his kin, or as constructing an elaborate front to hide something. observers asume the first, all the better: The best next point. No matter hou carefully you may construct gour persona, it will be pierced.xpect this, and prepare for it.A lie is best concealed by another lie. Fou must have another situation to our fictitious prince, is one that plays against

Helena, /woaldntworrg tomachabot do rfmtervwih Vtel do rfmanieteα completeitoacrelagpoltca Apety all ittaeiamladng treatedslbetearhtccopothathatM is trueN ifmatn caged ad, rall Ma gave asmings apologabot the dathof Pels, and pmisstoloo itoit, Hewle is that the Govaiaritownga do rfasemedegertochae that oldwhipng dgan thoughhetrdadtit what afoo:Terehasbeen GiovaiatiitythD. are for yas.dguesshetingfochaetobanthealedeetfde. toopitiatio, tghbet, l remember the one who gave yoa the seed. M.B. the m the wyrathful, frustratedidealist who is guick to anger. the best lies are the ones that both play to expectations and contain a kernel of truth. Be careful, how ever, to avoid showing interest or angertouardthingsthattrulymatterto sitytolingering vendettasoverminorslightsanda penchant nentsofferawonderfulopportunityt for cautionaryharshness to those who you ld oppose him. He should not hesitate to 5 take physical action himself shen the re is little to be lost. Additionally, t the occasional lapse into personal violence can be refreshing, clearing the mind of all save the imme. diacy of the experience. am certain you knou of #ohat speak. the m both to his best advantage. tere he wise, he would portray the primary persona, that of the cultured, ell. bred gentleman, as the thin veneer of civilization covering the petty, violent despotheusually pretendstobe.all that remains concerning public performance is the shifting betueen the two.Again, it is not wise to shou a featureless, lowedto"slip."Becertaintotakenoteofthose oho shouno true point to be made here is that you can not become predictable. This extends to the shifting betuseen personae. you have been t far too restrained, fly into a rage over the slightest otfense. f you have been brooding and violent, a prospect not difficult to imagine yith suallow you r you, pride, exercise you r sill, and refuse to be baited by obvious insults and challenges.f course, all of this is applicable for you nou, Maxwell.egin slowly, and do not make mistakes. Remember all that you have been told about the public persona and apply it to all situations shere you sish to you rself into believing that you can remove all masks sill turn on any weakness that presents itelf. erhaps not today, but eventually, the adder in you r breast vill strike. yill nou tell you how to avoid this ocurrence. reserved for an audience of one. Fust as you need a public persona, you also need one for which you wish to foster the impression among those present that you are lessening the distance betueen you, that you are a direct threat or show for personal use. No measure of trust will be gained from have do ne many times before. Dam positive that you do not reveal you r true motivations to those sith shom gou speak. advantagewillbe that you consciously craftthis mask prior to its use. Dseem to recall you r yits being incapable of fabricating a convincing act at the scene of the crime. thus far. As you will recall, his aim is to convince others that heis showing a truer face.Hewillfind that itiseasier to convince someone of his authenticity if he exists with in a knount freference. No matter that he can converse culture and learning sill not be comfortable to mang simply because it is so contrary to the ir expectations. this is

Conseguently, he must move to meet the m on the ir ground in this.e must make conceions to the ir prejudices in or der to convince the m of his sincerity.am sure that our fictitious prince

Similarly, t the petty despot, though much closer to stereotype, is too uncomfortable for easy t toleration. De or perhaps because of the prejudices our prince spite vill face due to his lineage, none of his subjects truly vishes are also those who can not stand to have an "int positionofpowerover the m. Dfour prince wishestoretain his position, he should in some way all ay the fears of his detractors and present a less violent face in personal situa. tions. the obvious choice for a private persona would be an rather than a construct that is uniguely shole and distinct from either. art, commerce and occult trafficking. aristocrats by way of the ir oun bigotry. ur prince should blend the worldliness and culture of his person with the passionate temperamentofhis lineage to that the se are the traits that the prince himself possesses, at least in part. Chisis commendable; the acting is easier to sustain if some part of the role is also a part of the actor. Cake not e of our prince, how ever. feiscarefulnotto carelessly reveal 1 as his own passions the passions of the role, nor the inverse. Be is eminently aware of the relative ease in blurring his own motivations sith those of this facade because it is so much closer to his own true nature. Jou in particular should learn from this creation of a prince. Let usreturn to the lessonslearned in dealing with you r public. Again, one facade will not be enough, nor should actor would try to root each in some aspect of himself.A careful prince sould go further and have at least some recognizable link to a previously established persona. Not only do es this provide continuity, but it reduces you r work considerably. though understand that you sish to do need not reinvent the yheel every time you ride in a carriage. tion, and you would be correct. the spotlight serves to illumine you, to serve as a targeting beacon. You must be prepared if you wish to endure and though the prosper. entire senate took part in the murder of C aesar, one knife peril. ## the Drivate Selt have told gou hou to deal with others. ou Duill tell of roleo;this ioanathema to self-knouledge.Che princeoho himselfisa fool.Jou carry the seedsto you r oun destruction with in you r breast.do not speak in metaphor here, Maxwell. D speak of our primal nature, t the how ling savage soho lurks just belou the surface. Dt is particularly his oun way with it. Do not be tempted by it. must for ge are truly will ing to for sake all claim to you r position, nor all social interaction beyond violence and the search for sustenance. Nnderstand that shich drives this primitive heart. t wishes for security and do minance, desires that strike a resonant chord with the desire to rule over others. experience that the Beast can be mollified shen its needs are met.Dn simpler termo, being a successful prince may be are also a tonic to this internal hazard. Asa leader, you are held accountable for the safetyot all with in you r do main. Much can be do ne in the name of safetyi protecting you rself can easily be explained as protecting Anythingt others. Vt is merely a guestion redefinition. presented assuch. Dnstead, itiscalleda danger to the entire do main. olitical turmoil serves as a fine example. CAn less, as prince, you have succeededinalienating asignificant numberof you r subjects, mest will not wishto risk the mselves for political motivation. Vt is much more difficult to overthrow an institution than to work with in it wshen it of fers protection from enemies. can der the guise o of protecting you r realm, protect you rself. Do not be afraid o of being ruthless,6 but neither should you fear the appearance of mercy. you should alwayo choose the latter. Df gou are too harsh sith an individual, the odds are guite good that he will not be available to seek redress.n the other hand, i you are

Vt can be said yithout do ubt that you are ambitious. ere you not, the re would be no need for this correspontake care, how ever, that the Meastwithin do esnotdisguise its actions and motivations as mere ambition. Become aware of the posibility, and turnitto you r advantage. ou uniguely you r own, a do main sherein gou shall live in safety and comfort. Che Deast also sishes for this. Hou convenient for you that the 1D ruler of a city have the power to all ocate its finite resources? Vt is not unheard of for a prince to reserve the choicest livestock and hunting grounds for himselt, a and few sould aspect will not concern itself with fear of scarcity. lesson to be learned is that by guarding you r do main, you also guard against you r darker half. Manage you r af

Pay heed to what will next tell you, Maxsell: more active and capable of our kind fall prey to the Beast. levelofsafety that will holditin check.the reislittle proof against anger. a time for righteous anger, yet when the houling east obscures all sith scarlet fury, it is difficult to be discrimifor not hing ifnot for this.Do not be manipulated by gour heritage. Baving addresed the east, let me nou address the 10 ft overlooked aspect of you r state: you r human emotions. g apart, you still share much yith the common the history of human existenceis written namely fear, hatred and desire, has already been dis Fet the re is cussed. alse another aspectto emotionallife that you would do vell toacknowledge. virtue. D shall not speak of religious tenets. shallow condescension. do gma and ethics behind, Duill tell you something of the valuesand dangersof do not retract this me to explain. Compassion is generally seen in tuo lights: the feeling of sympathy for those who are suff Hering, and the Fet we do not exist in the short term, and bea great asset. can not afford to think in terms of anything less than generations. the road of pure power, devoid compasis ironic that the guest for control of one's do main so of ten leads to loss of control of one's self, yet that is the nature of our existence.Rowever, freguent displays of compassion sill limit you re display of emotion ill be guestioned.At or st, they ill be believed, and you r resolve and steadiness will be gueswa luxury a prince can not of ten display in public. to put Kings of ten have Jou will be alone sitht this pain and you sill anguish over it. the n it threatens to overwhelm you, take solace in the fact that it is better than the alternative. Dt may well be the only comfort you have. emotions. t Uhile compasion deals sith have sion; a prince who convinces himself that he has truly becomes cold and hard, but sill remorse applies specifically to those you feel you l eventually become brittle and rigid.Meither of the se traits are found in successful, or even long-lived princes. olitiyour position for any appreciable length of time.Do not can not afford to makea shou of suffering the injusticesgou itwith any. you must act, do so long after the deed has transpired, and act in so mysterious a manner that none sill see you r motivation as yhat it is and seize upon it as a furthering you roun agenda:grantexclusive hunting rights sith the injunction to police the are a and restrain others from breaking our traditions the rein; all ow an elder to adapt as a childe one shom you wish to see join our ranks. Also, do not for get the world of the common herd; great ficactofcharity the imagination, t the se are the only public acts of remorse a ruler, yet it is a necessity in one e of our kind. Love: Never has more blood been spilt nor more rewill still be susceptible to ito call.Chis is not in itself a weakness: farf prom it.ou can not ignore the realities of tory breed, more of ten than not concerned about our oun survival over all else. Dt is a sad truth of life that love is rarely reciprocal, and virtually never in exact proportions. they invite disaster in our kind. ne is never so vulnerable as shen one has totally e exposed oneself to the object of ardor. Dn the best of all possible situations, not hing is more rewarding than reguited love, and not hing keeps the darkness further at bay. Should this lucky occurrence befall you, how ever, understand the potential liability a consort be seen as. Do not attempt to disguise the situationj may make it abundantly clear. Make no missteps, but punish fiercely and finally any sho would use the object of you r affections to you r detriment. For once, you r dark half you ld seek the same ends D you ld encourage you to take. true love is a rare gift. Do not make the mistake of many oho only realire its yorth once it is no

As have said, how ever, true love is rare, especially femotionalintensity betveenthe purouer and the pursued.f you find you rselfin the position of the different in the Nen t Uorld than on the Continent), you should capitalize on the situation. Courtship is a game; study hesitate to make demands on you r pursuer, demands that yill serve you r ousn ends. Dyou are the pursuer, rest assured sameto gou. Duould advise you to courtonly those for ghom Fou will still gain the prestige of courtship, and it will pass the time in a moderately pleasant manner. D you are strongly smitten, how ever, do not hing at first but observe.Above all else, you do not ant am certain you can imagine the leverage one might try to gain with such knouledge. Exercise you r critical facilities to the utmost, and strive toremainobjective.uouldadvise you not to initiate any action on you r oun, but realize that such advice sill most likely go unheeded in the heat ot is unabashedly motivated by love; rather, encourage the object of affection to make a similar move. nder no circumstances, hovever, should you engage in any bonding illusion of love; its steadiness and unwavering nature only add to the knowledge of its unnatural or igin. take this opportunityto learn from the mistakesofanother;the death of one who was once loved is a difficult burden to bear, hands. fthe choice is to merely pine or bond the beloved, great literature has arisen from similar circumstances. longer in the ir possesion. You must walk a very narrow path. you must be firm, resolute and enigmatic to you r public, yet you can not og o unoh h huonohy #otood y you sillfeelthe desire for love, yet you must not expose you rel or you r belovedto you r enemies. Dn essence, you mustremain a vibrant and feeling individual, yet shou little or none of the se emotions to others; you must lead a compartmental ied life, alone with you r emotionsand hard pressed to find princedom. #hich can not be abdicated with out great personal risk. Vt is the proverbial tiger; once grasped, it can not be safely loosed.t is my hope that, ith my advice and you r on natural intelligence, you yill come to accords with the that you can controlit, and do not let it control you. tis mg instruction to rule well and long. Do not disappoint me, IMaxuell. Estetan

## A Manifesto on Becoming Prince

I am going to tell you how to become the prince of a city. The elders who claim the right to control us by the ir more tell you. You may not believe me, but a letter such as this, were it to fall into the right hands, is capable of causing decrepit fools. Those who rule do not share the ir secrets; those who attain power and who are wise do not reveal how they achieved the ir position. I am telling you the se things because in you I see a power worth cultivating; a leader capable of becoming a dynamic prince in what ever city you choose as you r do main. I am writing this to tell you about those tactics that I have found to be effective in that long climb to the top. Heed my advice, and you will prosper. Ignore it, and think of me when they stake you out for sunrise. You may be asking you rself who I am. What city do I rule over that I should dare to give such advice? I am no prince. I rule over no do main, nor shall I ever.If I did,I would see this letter suppressed and destroyed. I have fought the elders for centuries, since before the betrayal of the Councilof Thorns. I remember the day of the great betrayal, even as my fellow soldiers shackled the mselves with a few strokes of the pen.I was the only one among us to really see the fear behind the elders'eyes, and secure in that knowledge,I walked for th from that chamber with my head held high.... On those first nights after the great betrayal, the elders were faced with a very real threat to the ir security. Those anarchs who chose to submit to the Convention were Blood Bound to the elders of the fledgling Camarilla, the ir punishment to slave for the ir new masters as the front line of defense in preserving the ir precious Masquerade. Today many of those ex-anarchs who survived are the princes and primogen of many cities. This shall be my revenge upon the m:I shall help those who are now you nger, hungrier and most ambitious to take the power that was given in return for this traitorous service. My only payment for the secrets I give you is you r success, for it means that some traitor who m I have known for five centuries has seen his last sunset. As for what I shall tell you, the elders do not want the se things to be known. I have, in my long years, seen many attempts at seizing the title of prince. Some have even succeeded.I have seen which tactics work, and what mistakes are commonly made.I have fought the elders of our kind for centuries, and my vengeance upon the m is to tell you, who still covets the ir position, how to supplant the m. As for what you do once you have seated you rself on you r throne,I care not. It is the bodies that you will inevitably step over to reach that throne that interest me. ## I. On Establishing a Mortal Power Base. The first step in you r quest for do minance among Kindred is to build a power base from mortals. This is easier said than do ne. We revel in our ability to control and manipulate that which is around us. This is not to say that we are submissive to authority ourselves- the Brujah and the anarchs are proof of this - but we all desire some control over our existence.We want secured feeding grounds, enough status to give us the freedom to pursue our pleasures, and the security tobe able to hide from our enemies. It do es not matter what ideology one follows, we Kindred are self interested crea- tures, and our primary goal is perpetuating our own survival. The best way that we Kindred have of assuring our survival is to control the resources of mortal society.Unlike the mortals, who see the world as full of endless resources free for the taking, we Kindred see the world as a dark place with very scarce resources worth killing, but not dying for. Our primary purpose lies in establishing safe and reliable herds, and this is only possible through controlling those things that keep the kine strong and secure.As a result, all sensible Kindred establish control over an are a that they will guard against all comers. This territory, whether it is a physical are a, an aspect of Kindred political life, or some are a of mortal influence, will be that Kindred's own personal do main.All Kindred attempt to build such do mains, and they jealously guard the ir holdings. Because of this brutal fact of Kindred society, you will find that every aspect of what ever city you have chosen to make as you r home has some amount of Kindred influence over it already.As such, you will find you rself in a very interesting situation. Namely, you will only be able to increase you r influence at the expense of another.This is yet another reality of our kind. The only way that you will succeed is through another's failure. The only way that we Kindred can gain some stability or security is by taking it from another. This is the primary reason why friendships are impossible among our kind.We are the quintessential predators, and in the end, we will feed upon each other. you r first priority in building a base of influence over mortal society is to achieve financial stability. Just how you get the money that will be necessary for you to expand you r influence is up to you, but remember that you must pay you r bills before you can take over the city. Do not laugh.I have seen a single audit destroy some Kindred.I have watched creditors chase a Cainite across a half-do zen new identities, ignorant of what they pursued but will ing to brave the gates of Hell to retrieve the ir assets. You must acquire assets that are both extensive and secure. This is the primary reason that so many of us fake our deaths after the Embrace, or go to great lengths to establish new identities. It secures our liquid assets so that even our beloved heirs can not get the ir hands on the m. Once you have established you rself as financially stable and are able to raise some funds, you r next priority will be to make some long-term investments. Anything that you choose to put you r money into over a period of time counts as such. You may want to make traditional investments -I recommend utilities or real estate - or you may simply choose to put you r money into very tangible assets, such as houses, cars and other property which can be turned into cash with a minimumof fuss. It is a very good idea to make sure that the se items are in someone else's name, preferably that of a Blood Bound ghoul who will not only minister you r affairs but also remember to pay the property taxes. Always remember that in what ever you do, the Ventrue will have been the re first, and that you are treading in the ir do main. they will have bigger houses, faster cars and more powerful businesses under the ir sway. Do not let this bother you. Remember, you are not in competition with the m just yet. So long as you do not present a threat to the m, the blue bloods will ignore you in the ir arrogance. Just remember to tread carefully and avoid stepping on any toes until you're at the point where you can do so with spikes on you r soles. you r next priority will be to establish some police ties for you rself.Once again, you will find that other Cainites have been here long before you.It will be safe to assume that in any Camarilla-held city most commissioners, precinct heads and other upper echelon police of ficers are controlled by the ruling prince or powerful elders. It will also not be unusual for most neonates to have occasional beat cops conditioned to look the other way concerning the ir feeding habits. With just about every Kindred in the city interested in controlling some aspect of the police, you will find that you r priority will be to find some niche in the city's law enforcement which you can lock all other Kindred out of. This will involve identifying which aspects of the police for ce are most open to exploitation and subversion. Internal Affairs is ideal, but is rarely available. how ever, any department has dents in its armor. department is made up of people, and people have weaknesses. It do esn't matter how you establish control over a faction of the police department, just make sure that you r control is solid and firm. Once you have even one small aspect of a police department under you r control, you can begin to widen the scope of you r influence. If you have even one policeman under you r sway, work hard to get him promoted and the n subvert his subordinates as well.the n start pushing for transfers for you r people to other precincts. This way, who le precinct houses can be under you r command in relatively littletime. Instead, concentrate on the less traditional and new media of communication. The sad truth about the elders is that they are very slow tounderstand the potential of new technologies.As such, they are constantly letting tools of infinite promise slip right by the m. By the time they realize the impact that, say, the Internet has on society, it will be too late for subtlety.they will react in the ir typical manner, buying the ir way in, establishing control and attempting to manipulate the content of that medium of communication.At to stifle has already been broadcast. In any city the traditional news media (television, newspapers, radio, etc.)will be controlled by the elders. not hing is more crucial to the preservation of the Masquerade than the literal control of what the kine See.Since the se elders will have such tight control over the se sources of information, they will be especially vigilant about the ir property. Stay away from the traditional media until you have grown strong indeed, or else you will attract unwanted attention from above before you are ready to handle it. In most cases, those oh-so-subtle manipulations of the elders will be not iced by the kine, many of who m will perouo, xo 4no ptos, ut Aeu se uotasonb ut tpom ou Atoo commercial."The result is that the elders will find the audience that they have just purchased moving on to other， media where ver you can. Concerts, performances and Web sites are all virgin territory for our kind, and they present the perfect opportunity to scurry around the cordon of silence that you r elders have created.Play you r cards right and you will soon be able to extend almost unbelievable influence over the kine.I do not jest; you will affect how they think. directions you desire. the re is reason to be careful here as well. You will not run into elders online, but you may well run into the neonates and ancillae who m they control. they will have just as much knowledge and interest in the se media sources as you, and a master to please as well. In any case, you should not have too much trouble gaining influence over the underground and nontraditional methods of communication in you r city. You may even wish to start you r own. Now that you have a voice, you can expose all of you r enemies'breaches of the Masquerade (or, if you can't find any violations, make up you r own. who says you have to play fair?) You can the n turn around and use you r influence to the gratefulelders. ## l.or ganized Crime

In every city, the re is some for m of or ganized crime. Criminal activity has existed since the beginning of time, and or ganizing it simply makes it more profitable.Crime has low overhead, high profitability and marvelous fringe benefits.It yields money, weapons and will ing soldiers which can be used to expand you r influence among both mortals and the Jyhad.It is no wonder that so many other Cainites attempt to control and manipulate this one aspect of mortal society. Achieving control over the criminal element in the city you are in will be tricky, but not impossible. The criminal underworld is composed of many different elements, from street gangs to insider trading flacks.What you must do is simply pick one selection from the buffet of wrongdoing and concentrate on that, rather than attempting to swallow the who le thing at once.If, on the other hand, you try a little of this and a little of that, someone else will steal the contents of each main dish out from under you, leaving you with scraps. You will find it very difficultto work you r way into the or ganized crime networks in a city.Every faction of Kindred society has its finger in the criminal pie. Elders and Ventrue concentrate on or ganized syndicates and white-collar crime, money laundering and fraud. Anarchs counter by controlling the gangs on the streets, and the ir retainers mug those of the Ventrue.Delving further into the depths, one finds that the Giovanni have been the most successful at the Followers of Set have the most success at controlling the worldwide drug trade.If you choose to expand you r influence into or ganized crime, be aware of the players involved. Information is key here. Know who se territory you will be 409 infringing upon and scout out the ir weaknesses before making even the first move in the ir direction. Otherwise, you will

The key to controlling the underworld is twofold. The first thing that is necessary is for you to either establish or take over a hierarchical crime network. Place into this hierarchy trusted retainers and give the m enough autonomy so that they feel as if they are benefiting the mselves as much as you. The one beautiful aspect of or ganized crime is that a well-maintained or ganization runs itself. Once a criminal network has been established, it regulates itself. you r only priority is to ensure loyalty, which you can do by occasionally showing the iron fist inside you r velvet glove. Run you r or ganization as ruthlessly as possible, but reward lavishly those who serve you well. When properly applied, the stick and carrot are all that you need.you r or ganization will do most of you r work for you, making you a for ce to be reckoned with with out you r raising more than the occasional finger. The second aspect of controlling the underworld in you r chosen city will be to encourage and assist the anarchs in gaining power over the gangs that they do not already do minate.Do not dirty you r hands you rself by getting involved with this aspect of the underworld. Instead, make inroads with the anarchs and let the m recruit you r bully boys for you.Portray you rself to the anarchs as a patron. Make the m think that the ir little gang empires are a personal power base.If you play you r cards right, larger and larger pieces of the pie will find the irway onto you r plate. ## 2.Civil Bureaucracy

Being able to control or manipulate information and data is very powerful, and being able to get the location of a Government is extremely difficult to infiltrate, as everyone wants a piece of it, but once you're in, the benefits are magnificent. ## 3. Churches and Religious or ganizations

This is a dubious are a in which to establish an influence. For many Kindred, it is enough simply to be able to use the sway held over or ganized religion to prevent the Society of Leopold from coming to town. the re are some Ventrue who see many of the televangelists and the ir shows as potential cash cows, and such Kindred will infiltrate and control the se or ganizations simply to skim as much money as they can from the m. On the other hand, while televangelists are rarely troubled by faith, the ir parishioners of ten are. This can lead to nasty surprises. The best reason to get a televangelist or charismatic preacher in you r fold is for the slave-like obedience he will translated into protests, votes and other useful toys. ## 4.Health

The advantages of this are obvious: blood in easy-to-carry bags and convenient places to store corpses. More than one wonderful have n if you don't care much about ambiance. ## 5.High Society

This is the do main of the truly blue-blooded-the most powerful and most glamorous people in any given are a. The people who are the controlling interest in the public aspects of the city are the intelligentsia, the art patrons, the old money elite and the political families.Many of the se people have the ir own considerable resources to call upon, and should you bend the m to you r will, you will have those resources as well.of ten ambitious Kindred think this will be one of the best places to gain a foothold.Too bad the Ventrue and Toreador have beat you to it. Instead, wait until the control of another are a gives you an entry into the world of martinis and Martha's Vineyard beach houses, the n move as quicklyasyoucan. ## 6.Industry

While this may bring up images of smokestacks and factories, this also includes access to the technologies that those very same industries are producing. Controlling or getting access to new technologies is an advantage that you should always press.The elders locked away in the ir Elysiums have no idea what the kine is capable of today, or if they do they have deluded the mselves into believing that they are safe from the power of silicon and split atoms.I want to see an elder stand up toa hydrogen bomb.Ireally do. ## 7.The Legal System

Establishing a presence here could involve anything from simply having a few lawyers at you r beck and call to having establisheda network of judges and courts under you r heel. Being able to sue you r enemy may not seem to be a very effective way to take on another Kindred, but what about a 2:oo PMi court date? You may also want to consider the have n-breaking power inherent in search warrants and zoning regulations. ## 8.0ccult

Controlling the shadowy culture of occultism and mysticism in the world of darkness will all ow the smart Kindred access to incredible amounts of for bidden lore. Of course, it will also yield an almost unending parade of yahoos. Walk softly, as the Tremere have harvested here first. ## 9.The “street"

Think of it as disorganized crime. By the "street,"I mean lower echelon gang members, prostitutes, beggars, petty criminals, etc. the se are the legions of mostly for gotten kine who inhabit the darkest parts of the lands of the living.For all of the ir failures, the se folks have developed an incredible tenacity.they are a superb source of information, and useful tools for dirty work as well.Keeping you r hands in this are a will at least keep you appraised of what is going on behind the scenes in a given city.Respect the territory of the Nosferatu who has inevitably been here before you, and you will tap into an information network nearly as comprehensive as that of the Sewer Rats. Transportation: Depending on the city, this could be one of the most importantareasof influencearound.Ifacity is is olated, control over who or what enters and leaves is very important. A Kindred can use such control to monitor other Kindred's comings and goings. An are a can become is olated or ttte o o dn udoa uo

## 10.Education

This is perhaps one of the most insidious ways to subvert a reigning prince's rule.After all, every prince is watching to see if the city government or the police are being subverted, but the school system? A university? Attack is less likely from that direction, so vigilance is weak.Besides, if you have time to wait, remember that the ghoul you make in the schoolyard today will be a policeman in l0 years, a lawyer in15oramayorin30.... ## II. all iances, for m and Function

It is a simple task to establish you rself in mortal society.It is much more difficult to establish you rself among the Kindred.We are social creatures, but the n again, we are also inherently can nibalistic.In every aspect of Kindred society, the re are secret unwritten rules of conduct that determine our status. Oh, we hold to the Traditions, never for get that; but beneath the Traditions the re is no law in

Kindred society save that which we make for ourselves. Just make certain you know who se rules you are playing by and you will prosper.On the other hand, the rules of the anarchs and the elders are quite different, and if you find you rself in the wrong game you'll be snuffed out like a can dle. You will need to make all iances with different groups with in Kindred society in or der to secure you r own status, you r move. Remember.that an all iance can take any for m, from an informal agreement between you rself and a Nosferatu trash

You have the responsibility to uphold you r end of such an all iance no matter what, even if you r putative all ies choose to back out or betray you. If not hing else, you must portray you rself as honorable and trustworthy. This will benefit you for two reasons: First, if you can get the Harpies on you r side, they will be certain to damage those who have betrayed you or failed to live up to the ir end of the bargain as long as they can sympathize with the poor betrayed, and second, when you do chose to break you r word or betray you r all ies (and you should only do the se things in the most dire of circumstances) they will be caught completely by surprise. This is not to say that you should all ow others to play you for a patsy, or to blindly enter into all iances with other Kindred. Remember that you must always uphold you r end of the bargain, and if they have failed to fulfill the ir terms, crush the m.Do this，not for vengeance's sake, but as a reminder to anyone else who is thinking of reneging on a deal. Remember that with in Kindred society, how you are perceived is infinitely more important than how you truly are.You must decide what you want other Kindred to perceive as you r goals and motivations.Once you know what image you want to project, do all that you can to insure that all Kindred in the city know who you are. Are you the righteous avenger, constantly fighting against the current prince's injustices and gathering you r for ces for the grand fight? Are you the territorial loner, controlling everything you hold sway over with an iron fist and crushing those who cross you? Or are you a quiet and dignified clan member, serving you r fellow Kindred and simply staying neutral in the affairs of the city? How you portray you rself will be essential to how the other Kindred in the city approach you and deal with you, and will dictate the types of all iance others approach you to for m. ## l.All for One... who are all pursuing a common goal, whether it is a group of anarchs that have banded together to diabolize an elder or a band of ancillae creating an intricately worded treaty that details sharing resources to approve funding for a housing project. In the se coteries, it is of ten very simple to get someone back in line who may be thinking of backing out. Just come running back because of intense feelings of guilt. ## 2.Enemy

A group of Kindred may choose to band together to destroy a common enemy. This type of all iance can be counted on to last until the enemy in question is dead and no sooner, though some have lasted quite some time as the members discover imminent threat after imminent threat.Some of the se coteries end up as roving hunter-killer gangs and they usually find the mselves put do wn for the ir own good. ## 3.Protection

Perhaps the prince has become too oppressive as of late, or perhaps the Sabbat are attacking the city. In any case, a group of Kindred of ten choose to all y against a threat until cowardice, the se types of all iances do have one weakness: it has passed.While the re's not hing wrong with creative they are extremely simple to exploit. Shout,"The Antediluvians are coming! Run!" and watch the m scurry. ## 4.Influence

A groupof Kindred of ten decides that rather than fighting, they can exploit the resources of a city together.As such, they can merge the ir or ganizations, establishing unprecedented influence over the city.the se inevitably last until one member of the central committee decides that her partners are getting a better deal than she is.At this point, things tend to fall apart in a shower of diablerie.On to a point. ## 5. Information

This is one of the least for mal, and most common types of all iances. It consists of a group of Kindred who simply keep each other informed of current events. The advantage of this amounts of information with a minimal expenditure of resources. The disadvantage is that it can just as easily be used to spread misinformation or outright lies, and it's damned near impossible to track the source of the misinformation.Of course, if you are the one spreading rumors, this isn't such a disadvantage. ## III. Politics After Sundown

The various groups with in Kindred society have differing goals, strengths and weaknesses. Any Kindred who would attempt to make his mark, especially as a prince, must say that our many little groups of Kindred fall neatly into stereotypes- that would make the m all far too easy to exploit, after all but many do seem to fall into hoary behavior patterns. Those patterns can be studied, learned and -if you do not fall into the m you rself-exploited. ## 1.Brujah

If you oppose authority, the n you are the ir brother. If you find this to be the case, encourage familiarity with the m.Lead the m, but do not rule over the m.they will chafe against any authority, even self-imposed.Never bully the m, but if someone else has been foolish enough to do so, the n make a show of striking back. Do this, and you shall gain the ir respect. Gain the ir respect and they will follow you to the gates of hell, shouting you r slogan all the way. What you must expect from the m: Expect arguments. Expect defiance. The Brujah, while they may be fighters, are not soldiers. they do not subscribe well to a military mentality， preferring the tactics of the mob. Instead, you r best course of action is to find out what goals the Brujah have, find ways to convince the Rabble that the ir goals will best be served with you in charge, and turn the m loose. What you may of fer the m: of fer to the Brujah the tools of the fight:guns, blood, feeding grounds and political protection.Give the m the opportunity to rebuild the ir little Carthage, and constantly let the m know that you support the ir plans to reestablish Carthage with in the Camarilla. Give the m So for th; phrases like that are easy for the m to remember. ## 2.Gangrel the se Kindred are more territorial than any other Kindred. they of ten lay claim to some desolate wilderness are a and the n challenge any and all who enter. The biggest mistake that you can make is to trespass in the ir do main. Let the prince do that instead. seem alien or do wnright barbaric to others, but they do have a certain vigor. The Gangrel in the city (those few who stick are also very honest and straightforward (at least to each other). Do what ever you can to gain the ir respect.Once you have the ir respect you will have more aid than you can possibly imagine.d上a

What you can of fer the m: what ever they want. Those things that the Gangrel tend to want are things like Kindred staying out of city parks or for some logging company to be shut do wn.Put this in perapective; compared to the scope of the Jyhad, what do es this cost you? Give it to the m. Remember, how ever, that the mere fact that you have bribed the m do es not mean that they wiil fight for you. What you can expecf from the m: The Gangrel will not pay attention to you. By virtue of many years of betrayal, they will be mistrustful.Worst of all, they treat all other Kindred as the rest of us treat the Ventrue.Vow not to lose you r temper with the ir attitude and things will be much easier for you. ## 3.Malkavians the re is absolutely no discernible pattern of behavior to the se lunatics.they share no common interests, no common goals and no discernible hierarchy that may be bargained with. Some of the Malkavians make excellent all ies, some make terrible enemies and some make a good meal. What you can of fer the m: the re is not hing that you can of fer to the Malkaviars as a gestalt. Find out what each one wants, the n give it ta the m.Or don't. Patience truly is a virtue when dealing with the madmen of our kind. What you can expecf from the m: Are you jesting? the re is not hing that you can expect from a Malkavian.Remember that when a Malkavian makes his move, no matter how extensively you have prepared, you will not be ready for what happens. ## 4. Nosferatu

When you approach fhis clan, you must not show that you are of fended by the ir appearance no matter how hard they will try to make you pull back in revulsion.they will respond favorably to you if yau approach the m as equals and treat the m as you would any other Kindred. This will impress the

Nosferatu as to you r character, but do not think it will ever earn the ir trust. The Nosferatu are suspicious of all other Kindred, and few will involve the mselves overtly in politics. they are concerned with practical things, and they value is olation more than anything else. You will never be seen as an equal by the Nosferatu, so gaining the ir friendship will beimpossible. As an aside,I recommend meeting with Nosferatu on neutral ground. The sewers have swallowed up more than one would-be prince, while you certainly don't want the m in you r have n, dripping slime on the carpet (and memorizing both location and entry points). What you may of fer the m: What could you possibly of fer when they control all of the information in the city? they will want favors, not material goods, and the price will be high. how ever, it will be more than worth it,I assure you. If it helps, think of it as a long-term investment in the city. Buy the prince's secrets from the m, and pay what ever they ask-once.of fering the m the freedom to develop and expand the ir underground do mains may win you friends.On the other hand, permission matters little to the ir kind. What you may expect from the m: they will be telling you the truth, unless the prince has paid the m of f. In that case, they will be lying to you. they also will be telling the prince the truth, unless you have paid the m of f, in which ing on you, too. ## 5. The Toreador

You are entering dangerous territory when you deal with this clan, not or ious for some of the most bitter infighting in Kindred society. The Toreador are split between the ir two factions -the Artistes and the Poseurs -and as they're not actually fighting over anything important, they reach new heights of viciousness.The Artistes control the most prestige with in the clan, and the refore they are the most valued and respected elders in Toreador eyes only.The Poseurs, on the other hand, are masters at Kindred politics and the games of presentation and intrigue that the elders play. In almost any city, the leader of the Harpies is a Toreador Poseur.If you can get the Harpies on you r side, you will become politicallyunstoppable. What you can of fer the m: Praise the m. Go to the ir parties. Appeal to the ir vanity and the ir sense of culture. Go to the ir art shows. Do not act rudely toward a Toreador, unless you are do ing it deliberately to amuse another degenerate. Demonstrate you r command, and do not all ow any of you r cohorts to be rude to the m. If someone has slighted the by publicly humiliating the of fending party at a later date. This is not only useful, but also enjoyable, if I may say so myself. What you may expect from the m: they will of fer you political advice scattered between the catty remarks. Heed the ir warnings, as they are masters of intrigue and have played the same political games for centuries. A warning: Any advice that they give you will also be in the ir own interest. they will always side with the ir clan above all else.If they of fer help, do not refuse, as many Toreador have resources to call upon that make some Ventrue green with envy. ## 6. Tremere

Dealing with any Tremere is an invitation to trouble. Arrogant and vicious, the Tremere have a tendency to use and manipulate others out of sheer habit. they are very dangerous adversaries, but are even more dangerous as all ies. The Warlocks have a nasty habit of running of f, licking the ir wounds, and the n coming back and incinerating those who have displeased the m. Capitalize on the fact that nobody trusts the m, so either for ce the m to work toward you r ends or keep the m so busy watching the ir own backs that they can't hurl daggers at you rs. Tell others that the Tremere must have been up to Something and feel free to make up the details of the plot. No matter how outre the one you come up with may be, rest assured, they've probably been up to something even stranger.A final not e: Find out where the Chantry is. The real one. What you can of fer the m: If you must deal with the Tremere, of fer the m favors. Only deal with the Tremere if you know that you can claw you r way out of the meeting if you must.Never accept anything from the Tremere unless you know what you must give in return.Never accept a boon from the m unless in the most dire of straits.If at all possible, on the other wait for the m to act to extend you r services. What you can expect from the m: The Tremere will use and manipulate you at every opportunity.they will never show the ir internal dissension to the others-it is unheard of. That is not to say that the Tremere do not fight each other, simply that they don't do it when the children are watching if you catch my drift.If you find you rself witness to an internal Tremere dispute, side with the Chantry leader. The Chantry leader always wins. ## 7.Ventrue

The Ventrue will have more money, more status, more power, more influence and more contacts the n you do. Deal with it. they have enough resources to buy and sell most other Kindred 10 times over. With the exception of the prince's brood, every Ventrue secretly wants to be the prince. they want the power and the prestige, and they feel that they will have the power when you deal with the Ventrue: they are such subtle manipulators that the ir paranoia makes the m feel that they are constantly being subtly manipulated. What you can of fer the m: When they have everything? The only thing that you can of fer the Ventrue is the opportunity to achieve more power and influence in the city.In fact, you r best bet is to make the m think that they are manipulating you. Be careful, though. The Ventrue play hard. When the time comes, kill as many as you can, especially those Ventrue who were you r closest all ies. After all, they're seeing you as a useful way to achieve power for the mselves. What you can expect from the m: they will never side with a non-Ventrue. they truly do see the mselves as separate from and in some ways superior toall other Kindred.This arro- gance can be used against the m, for it makes the m pathetically predictable. ## Other Clans

## l.Assamites

Hire the m first. More important than hiring the m as assassins is contracting the m as bodyguards, if you have the resources.Many Kindred do not realize just how valuable Assamites are as guards.Always be honest with the m. they will never side with non-Assamites against the ir own, but you can always buy the m of f, or at least prevent you r enemies from hiring the m. ## 2.Followers of Set

Never, ever, ever:talk to the m, listen to the m, accept any favors from the m, pay attention to the m or even think about the m unless you are about to kill the m. ## 3.Giovanni

Dealing with the se Kindred is very much like dealing with the Devil himself.The Giovanni look out only for the mselves.You can hope for very little from the m.they prefer not to bother with Kindred politics, instead relying on the ir influence over mortal society and knowledge of the realms of the dead.Do not enlist the help the Giovanni if you can avoid it;if you are not careful, you may find you rself quite literally selling you r soul to the m. If you must deal with the Necromancers, of fer the m a fair deal, with both sides getting the ir cut up front. Never borrow money from the m. ## 4.Ravnos

Never trust a Ravnos. Watch over all of you r possessions when they are even with in shouting distance. Use what ever position that you have in the city to encourage the prince to step on the se vagabonds, but make certain that you r name is not attached to the deed. If you can get away with it, frame the m for anything that you have do ne. If a Ravnos takes something from you, leave it be, no matter how important the item in question might be to you. If you tempted a Ravnos by telling her how important the trinket was to you, you deserved to lose it. ## 5.Anarchs

As a who le, the anarchs are petty and stupid thugs.of fer the m the petty things that petty men want. of fer the m blood, feeding grounds, guns, etc.All that you can expect from the anarchs is stupidity and a comfortable place to stop a bulrhetoric and do gma, year after year. The anarchs are not hing one else's.Remember that is rare for a pawn to checkmate a let. they spend most of the ir time in the ir "Anarch Councils" trying to crush the elders with the same predictable tactics, but pawns, and if they are not you r pawns, they will be someking, but enough of the m can be a threat to lesser pieceslike you. ## The Sects

## 1.The Sabbat

If you have ever considered joining the Sabbat, the n I urge you to make you r choice now and hold you rself to what ever decision you make.Waffling won't make it any easier.I was tempted to join the Sabbat in its halcyon early days, but inthe end I came to the decision that the Sabbat is not much different from the Camarilla at its core. The elders are still just as powerful and manipulative;only now they don't have topretendtobecivil. All Sabbat vampires who m you encounter will almost inevitably be nastier, stronger and fiercer than you.You may wonder what advantage you would have against such creatures. It is this: No matter how much an elder hates and fears you, he will hate and fear the Sabbat more.The best course of action for you is torelyon you r abilityto deal with and relate to others.When the Sabbat enter the city, sit back and let the prince and cronies take care of it （and send the Harpies after the prince if he do esn't). If you are lucky, you might wind up rid of both. If you must deal with the

Sabbat, of fer the m anything - the chance to commit Diablerie on prince and primogen, the opportunity to make some new recruits, the moon in a hatbox - what ever it takes. Just make sure that what ever deal you cut do es not all ow the m to renot a single square inch. Once the Sabbat have established a main in the city once they've served you r purpose. Grant the m foothold in you r city, you are do omed. ## 2. The Inconnu

I know not hing of the se ancients. they are all powerful and are not to be trifled with, but consider concerns like you rs to be beneath the ir not ice. they lurk in the shadows and watch the rest of us for any signs of the coming Gehenna. Unless you stumble across one in her lair, Inconnu are no threat.If you avoid the m, they will avoid you.If you find that you must fight against one of the m,I can recommend to you a lawyer who specializes in will s and the like. The Inconnu have survived the Jyhad over many millennia. they can take care of the mselves, and, for that matter, you. ## IV.Other Dwellers In Darkness

## 1.Lupines the se creatures inhabit the for ests and other rural are as, such as arboretums, swamps and college fraternity houses. they rarely venture into the cities.Lupines are rarely dangerous unless they are provoked, so avoid provoking the m. Find out what are as the Lupines have claimed for the mselves and the n avoid the m at all costs;do no trespass in the ir territory.If you become aware that any Kindred of you r city have trespassed in the ir territory, find a deep hole and hide.If you have any contacts among the Gangrel, use the m to curry favors with the were wolves.Tell the Lupines that in exchange for the ir help in rooting out you r evil elders, you'll work to create a pollution-free, perfect little world where everyone lives in peace and harmony. they usually fall for that. Of course, you don't ever have to follow through on you r promises once you've reached princedom. After you are finished with the Lupines, ignore the m. Who are they going to bullets on payroll and you'll be fine. ## 2. Mages

Assume that dealing with a mage will be like dealing with a Tremere, only worse. the se masters of the arcane arts are as dangerous as any Kindred even though they are mortal. they have the ir own concerns, though, and are generally too busy chasing each other to bother us. Ignore the magi, and they will most likely ignore you.If you can not ignore a mage, and you r back is to the wall, strike hard, strike fast and strike to kill.If they see you coming you're in a great deal of trouble, but if you can strike the first blow it's usually the last. In you r attempts to outflank you r elders, you may make use of those mages called Virtual Adepts. they are absolute wizards at the new methods of communicating, so far from the pale of the elders. how ever, eventually they will turn on you out of sheer boredom, so keep hard copies of you r records of f line where they can not get at the m. ## 3.Wraiths

The Restless Dead, as they prosaically call the mselves, make superb spies.Invisible most of the time, intangible always, they can hide with in the home of the most paranoid prince, all the while playing the fly on the wall.The trick， of course, is making contact with the m.Once you do start talking with ghosts, how ever, it's of ten easy to strike a deal.they all have concerns on earth which they're pathetically eager to have you protect. don't cross the m, how ever: they may not seem potent but some can open coffins at midday or rip souls from sleeping bodies. A final warning: So far as I can tell, the Giovanni control the m, so bear in mind that if you do traffic with the se restless spirits, everything you say will get back to the Necromancers eventually. ## 4.Hunters

I recommend quietly getting out of the ir way. has ty evacuations leave signs, and keep the hunters on the trail. If you can do so carefully, send the m after you r enemies. This is trickier than it looks, and can be used as evidence against you if it ever comes to light. So tread carefully, and never let anyone else know that you use hunters as tools. The unwritten rule, of course, is that if you use hunters on others, you've just declared you rself fair game for hunters tobe used on you. If you can not avoid a hunter, the n I of fer to you as advice a tactic used by members of the Sabbat: Embrace the hunter in question, Blood Bond him and the n send him of f to go and kill the people who sent him. The irony alone makes it worth it. ## A Last not e

A final word on any all iances you chose to make with you r own kind: Be fair. Be up front. Never cheat. If you do cheat, you r enemies will turn on you with a vengeance, and none will wish to be you r friend. Keep you r promises when it is polite and dispose of those who hold promises you can not keep. Watch out for the enemies secretly controlling you r all ies. Use you r powers of Presence, but remember that loyalty find and everlasting. how ever, also remember that no matter how charming you may be, do minate beats a pair of aces. ## V. Making you r move

It will not be easy.On the other hand, it will not be agonizingly difficult. The day that you have waited for will simply arrive. The day that you will make you r move. The first thing to remember when making you move is that you must take you r position in Kindred society.Power that is given by others can be taken away by others; power that you attain and take for you rself can only be lost by you.The only way you will impress the necessary elders (those elders you can not control or kill are the elders you must impress make sure that the number of elders you must impress is very small) is to take power. No appointments. No votes.No revolutionary councils.Take power. Everything that you have planned for, everything that you have prepared and every all iance for ged leads to that crystallizing moment，the moment that you decide to take the princedom for you rself.Just how you intend to do it will be up to you. the re is no surefire way to assume the title of prince. All that can be of fered to you is advice, not on what to do, but on how you should do it. We may delude ourselves （and Iwill admit that the elders of my own clan are the most guilty of this） into thinking that we can rule over ourselves by using traditions of government borrowed from the democratic traditions of the kine. But we are no longer mortal. We can not rule ourselves according to mortals' rules and standards. The governmental traditions of the kine apply only to the mindset of the kine. We are Kindred. We are ruled by the Beast. The hunger motivates us more than any other thing, no matter what lies we tell each other to delude ourselves. Our existences are taken up by the constant need to feed. This has affected our world view irrevocably. Remember, every Kindred looks out into the night and sees only the scarcity. Since we Kindred see world as a place of scarcity, one can only rule in this world by controlling the scarce resources. Remember this.If you make you r move for power, everything that you do, as well as everything that you r all ies and enemies do, will be motivated by the need to protect and procure resources. You must make it very clear to all involved that you will maintain strict control of the resources that the Kindred are dependent on, and that loyalty to you will be most generously rewarded.You might wish to read Beowulf for pointers on this matter; not ice how many useful swords Hrothgar gathers by dispensing useless gold rings. The next point to remember is this: You must be sure of not hing less than total and absolute loyaltywithin you r ranks. the re can be no dissent, nor tolerance for those who have not committed the mselves to you r vision and cause.I am not saying that you must have fanatical followers, though that is a desirable option(look at how successful it has been for the Assamites), but you must have followers with no do ubts about you r cause.You must cast a very careful glance at all of you r subordinates and all ies, and it is best to eliminate any who so much as express do ubt at crucial moments.Watch the m, for if you see suspicious motivations or action among any of the m, you will have to strike out for you r own best interests. If you can not trust a member of you r own camp, you shall have to slay him.Quickly and ruthlessly is best, to serve as an example to you r other followers.More importantly, this sends a message to you r enemies as to how very serious you are. all ies are best used during the coup d'état, but not trusted.Give the m the ir instructions but do not rely upon the m.You may end up simply using the m as can non fodder, or as a shield for you r own troops. This sounds callous, but makes perfect sense. Churchill, after all, was will ing to fight to the last Colonial during World War II; deceased Australian soldiers couldn't vote him out of of fice, but living British ones could keep him in. Make you r decision as to you r relationship with each all y and the n stick with it. Do not constantly change the ir standing with you. If an all y is treated as a trusted advisor one minute and a footsoldier the next, he will justifiably begin to suspect you r motives as they regard him. Once that occurs, you may as well lead him to the prince's have n and turn him e betray you. Many Kindred who have never taken power have romantic images of how they will achieve the ir coups. Some picture a genteel war of attrition, where the losing prince gracefully leaves the city.Others see a series of artfully handled political battle, climaxing with the exile of the prince on the word of the primogen and you r being lead in triumph through the city streets. It never happens this way. A revolution is not neat.It is not tidy.It is a total and complete assault on all that has been established in an ashes. You are not fighting according to any known mortal rules of warfare, and the Jyhad has never bothered to stop and write do wn a set of guidelines.You are fightinga total and complete war for do mination. You are fighting, like the wolf, for do minance, to become the alpha of the pack.how ever, we are more deceitful, more barbaric, crueler and nastier than any wolf could ever hope to be.We are Kindred. If you do not immediately throwallyour resources at the prince you have decided to take do wn, have no do ubt that he will feast upon you r vitae.You must be smart, fierce and totally committed.You must also show no mercy.Absolutely none.Not ever.The moment you do, you are admitting weakness; the moment you admit weakness, you have already lost. On what may be a more useful level,I suggest the following tactics once the situation develops into fighting in the streets: Stir up troubles among the mortals as cover for what you are do ing.The prince's for ces will be split between keeping or der, protecting the Masquerade and defending him against you. you r for ces, on the other hand, will be focused on but one goal.After all, it's the prince's job to maintain the Masquerade, come what may. trusts first, and he will be at a loss for advice and information.Once he starts striking at you blindly, he's you rs. Cut his lines of communication. Take do wn the advisors he don't stop until he's dead.You should put out of you r head all melodramatic not ions of trials and sunrises. Kill him quickly and scatter his ashes.don't diablerize him if the re's the slightest possibility of witnesses, but if you can pull it of f,I recommend it highly. Once in power (and I assure you, it will seem as if it as an undisputed leader) you will need to plant the seeds for a firm and stable rule.I can not give much advice here, as I only wish to tell you how to take power, not keep it.In truth, if you are truly worthy to rule, you shall know instinctively what must be do ne to assure a strong and steady rule. And if you are not worthy, you can be assured that you r successor shall be arriving shortly. Always remember that you must be will ing to embrace the ideals of revolution, and the n be just as will ing to throw those ideals aside for the greater good of you r realm. Once you have do ne this, you shall truly be a prince with in you r do main. Should you ever for get, well, the sunsets will be brighter for you r ashes. -A Friend

## Rules and Regulations

REPORTFROMTHE t. Rouis onclave CALLEDINTOSESSIONBY rinceechieleonte OF lan Hentrue ONSEPTEMBER17,1995

## Seyseastonoredfellow Rrinces: relevant information discussed at the St. Louis Conclave.It will be disseminated by courier to all princes of recognized Camarilla do mains who were unable to attend, and to all non-aligned "princes" demonstrating either vulnerability or interest in an all iance. Most of the information contained with in is merely a reaffirmation of what we have known for many years, but it is good to have it in codified for m,I think. Any questions, concerns or disagreements you may have can be directed back to the Ventrue Justicarate, care of the Archon Gabriel Di Santis, who is responsible for the Justicar's correspondence the se days. ## On the ositionof the rince

## with inhisomain

Traditionally, we Kindredhaverecognized the necessityof the princetobethesingle most powerful Kindred with inagiven do main This is the drect result of the need for or der tobe imposed by main strength onmany occasions.When the who leof Kindred society was endangered by both the sheer number of Kindred competing for feeding to have a single potentate in place to provide direction for the safety of all. beloved Camarilla, and the nitialcodificationftherightsofarulerofanygivendomain. During the Dark Ages, travel from city tocitywas perilous for mortals, let alone Kindred.the bywaysbetween variousdomains containedmany daners (especially from Lupinesandwselter Inaddiinthlordofagivendomainwasnotrquiredtiv what they considered tobe a violation of the irright to rulewithout competition from others of our kind.Eventually this sort of survival pressureled tothe founding of our

Rerettalanylebytttnraizatinitmn farastmactivfmildwrer came from the ranks of moreenlghtened elerand the ambitious ancillaeof that tme. Many of the se farsighted souls are the leaders of the Camarilla this present night. Ascitnreini Knttharestfthqcl herdshsopf Kindredsocitynthoseitiefthe Midd Aesvaried Smeits were ruledmuhlithedmainsbyasinllordandhibroodtrmtropol among the Damned in the never-ending quest for political supremacy.of ten, one clan would be do minant inagivencityusuallythe Ventrue, Toreadorrthe Brujh interlanconfittmanyfthmallruhewarsftheperid when everln evenbryinedthuandiauvrnwitinatuaitwou immediately eektoestablishcontroloverthecity'srulingelitewiththeeventualgoalof creating anunbreakable strangleholdonthecityfortheirclan.Sincethose Kindredwho ereatnullrailt autonomouselderstruckbackbyusingtheirlong-establishedcontroloverthetraditional economic and political on the human and Kindred

As the ldermore conservative Kindred baled at the for mationofasocietyofour increase in the size and numbers of the cities, and the growing ferocity of the Anarch Revolt. ## MATERIALSFORSTUDY for aprimeexamlefthissortofstroeandcountestrokeeethereat written by the Parisian Toreador Mercedes Guizot on the underlying stresses leading to the conflict between Henry of Navarre and the Catholic League.This conflicturnatallnldatnrdnt repretatvanllfitu a small collctive of pseudo-independent elders, through the ir infuence on Henry IIIof Valois, was the epitome of the traditionalelder-sponsored army.On the othandavarretroughfalfhiswnhadecomfavorit Guizot and as such became a particular target of the League's of fensives.While the Leaguewonsominitialvitoriesuizotsrequestfor Camarillaaidenabld Navarre, with his much smaller for ces, to win decisive victories at Coutras, Arques and Paris.the se triumphs, in addition to securing for Navarre the thronef Franalssinaledtepsitionfeveralfthldrhint League.Guizot's treatise can bereadilyobtainedby thoseinterested, and itis highly recommended by this transcriber. Those Kindred with in many such threatened do mains quickly joined with the Camarillainan attempt to gain some measure of protection.Soonenough, the Camarilla was composed of many cities, leagues, councils and others who preferred sharing informationandoccasionalactionwiththeirpeerstothepossibilitiesofdeathatthehands

By the end of 16th century, the Camarilla was easily the largest sect of our kind extant.The benefits — information on the activities of the anarchs and the ability to travel safely from do main to do main —made it clear to many that membership in the Camarilla was the only reasonable guarantor of safety.It stands as a testament to the Camarill's strength that, before the Sabbat Wars reached the irheight, the majority f those elders receiving Final Death during the Anarch Revolt were those who chose to tollonthosewhospurnedthesafetyofthe Camarilaandthislessonwasnotlostonthose who survived.Most flocked to the Camarilla; a rare few instead swore all egiance to the newly-fledged Sabbat. of the anarchs or submission to recalcitrant elders. With the recognition of do mains as political entities came the recognition of the qepu dd o Camarilla.ndeed, manydomains heldtotherown political structures evenafterjining the Camarilla.Still, with the ever-increasing need tocoordinate and gatherinformation city to serve primarly as the Camarll's eyes and ears.The title Prince, inuse for centuriesamoncrtanmoreelarandiingvampircrerraidlypead coss

## not E the possibilitywasraised indiscussionthat the termwas or iginally used princes performed The term Princeof the Vampirescould thusbe seenas equivalent tothesimilaly satirical epithet King of the Jewsbestowedupon Jesus Christ.how ever, astheonlyevidence extant for this the or y comes from Brujahrincf Coritasshelvedforlatrdisussionourransrbely includes it here in the interest of completeness. This individualwouldberesponsible for lookingout for the collctiveinterests of the city's Kindred, as wellas maintaining and enforcing the newlyminted Traditions.This Kindred were in anygivenreion and the irlineage.Eventually this roleexpanded t serving as the check-inpoint for visiting Kindred, which of course ensured that onlythe prince knew who was in the city at any given time.Knowledge is power, of course, and as would go to when entering a do main, or of who m Justicars made the ir demands.The princenitlmixfldverraditinandrisinaethtupe the Camarilla cities. ## the PRINCEASDOMINANT POLITICALFACTOR

As amatterof course, a prince must immediately establishboth the authority with which shewillantainrrul swell asthetneerulewill ta Will the prin anautocrat rulinwihrcndcrushinppsition will shmanipulatr, her enemiesat eachther?Will shebeapatriot, rallyinghersubjectsagainst exteral threath styisalmost lvant.what marsisthatestablisd atner elsealislst Vacilltionatthebeginingfaprince'srealmquicklytursintovacillaton atheendfaveryshortreioreimportantly, settingthetoneforaeignmmediatly inconflict with the prince Failuretodomeansthat shemust playbytherule setup by her adversaries, and thus inevitably fall. ## Recommendationsof the onclave on the Roleof the rince intheeodernra the mainupsef th Conclavenadditntthexchanfinformatinnd posting of updates concerning the activities of Kindred considered a clear and present danger tothe interests of the Camarilla, was to disuss and lay do wn new guidelines herrolein Kindred societyandthetools atherdisosal The princemust alsounderstand the unique dangers that our modern world of fers. As an emissary of the Tremere of was hington D.C. do main put it:"The fires of the Inquisition are not hing compared to an atomic bomb; and Russia, until recentlya center for rujah power, has grown silent. How manyofus claim have nsincitiesthat are primary targets for such devices?the re is far more to worry about the se days than Lupine incursions and the occasional curious mage. In an effort to ease the burdens of ruling and encourage stability among the ruling class of the Kindred, the Conclave assembled information regarding the enemies, both supernatural and mundane that a prince might face.the Conclave also of ered several recommendations on how a prince may more efficiently rule a do main, utilizing the tohelp newprines whhadlittle experience, aswellas toelpmore established prins reconcile the ir experience with the rapidly changing times. ## RIGHTSANDPRIVILEGES

The prince has at his disposal many tools toinsure safe and prosperous reign.The rights of a prince are undisputed mastery over do main and the support of the Camarilla in the for mofrecognitionof the right torule that do main.the responsibilities of the prince are tomaintain the raditionsspeciallythe Masqueradeaswellastoinformthe

The prince is faced with an enigma of ruling.She is iven incredible power by her fellow Kindred with thmpliitrestrictionthat shewillusethepowergivenhertobenefit her fellow Kindred.for tunately, each prince has a specific set of guidelines for the maintenanceofdomain, thsix Traditionsthatweristivenby Cainetohischiler. I a prince is truly wise, shewill recognize that the raditions are the most powefl weapons at her disposal.The judicious use of that which is already at her disposal will enable the prince toensure stability and the safety that the Camarilla requiresto prosper. In the end litte elematter. Justicars of the Camarilla of any and all threats, supernatural or otherwise. ## Che Craditions

Each prince setstheagendaforhisrulebyhowhechoosestointerpretthe Traditions. It falls to the prince to use the Traditions as his most potent resource.Appropriately invokedcasareellnhnlwerthatindsntmaflf comes from maintaining the Traditions. ## Chefirst Cradition Che easquerade

## THOU SHALTNOT REVEALTHY TRUENATURE TO THOSENOT OF THE BLOOD. do ING SO SHALL RENOUNCE THY CLAIMS OF BLOOD. of the ir enemies. What exactly constitutes a violation of the Masquerade is relative. Certain stricter princes argue that the creation of a ghoul can be interpreted as a violation, while others will ook the other way at blatant transgressions under some circumstances. Many princes have been a able to invoke the Masqueradein or dertokeep the ir own personal whim, and can frequently utilize breaks in the Masquerade — perceived or real — to intervene in just about any situation. A prince is given the right to interpret the Masquerade as he sees fit. He should be With questioning, of course, comes the beginning of defiance, and so on. In addition, it has become common practicefor the Kindred to involve others that exist with in the shadows Lupines, mages, et al. - in the manipulations of the Jyhad. how ever, in the se most dangerous of times, Kindred seeking to manipulate such beings existence. Dealings with other "supernatural beings should henceforth be regarded as

Recommendations of the Conclave: The Masquerade should, in the se most careless times, be open to even stricter interpretation than before.In the past, the Masquerade was invokedto protect Kindred from the fires of the Inquisition.In this more modernera, t available to the kine have become much more powerful. The Masquerade is in danger on a worldwide level, as the technological tools of the kine threaten to pierce the veil of shadows which we have thrown over ourselves. as to invoke the final deaths of the violators if necessary.Those Kindred who openly by the prince should bemadeanexampleof Th princemust invokehis authorityin this matter, and report any potential tears in the fabric of the Masquerade to the usticars. ## Che Becond Cradition Che omain

## THYDOMAINISTHY OWN CONCERNALLOTHERSOWETHEERESPECTWHILEINIT. NONE MAY CHALLENGE THYWORD WHILEINTHYDOMAIN. this Tradition guarantees to any Kindred that his claim on an are a is recognized if that Kindred has the strengthtoholdit.the clansofthe Camarillahave guaranteed this right toindividual princes in exchange for the security that the prince provides.Under against all others in an are a, as the prince maintains the individual status of the clans. The prince performs this role by providing arbitration of disputes and recognizing and

The current interpretationof do main is that the prince has the leeway to set the long as he possess the power to exert his authority over the are a in question. Claims of excessive do mains may be challenged, of course. promoting the system of status, boons and Prestation. Aprince can not rulea do main on his own.Traditionall, the prince relies upon those Kindred affiliatedwith and loyal tohim usuallyhisbrood tocontrol the various aspects of his do main, as well as calling upon the various elders to maintain the ir own control fiefdoms with in the realm.the Brujah are of ten all owed to do minate the strts, the Toreadorcallhighsocietyanth Gangelthoseparklandsntclaimedby Luins, how ever, now this semi-feudal system has led to a small crisis. Many Kindred, especiall those nwtothe Blood, are convinced that since a prince has asolute contol over a do main, he inevitably demonstrates favoritism in do ling out Elysium status and recognize that the prince is given his autonomy to do this by the ir own clans.For example, autonomythat the ywill have in the irunderground realms.The same sort of barter system do mains with in the realm that they wish the prince to leave alone. the deinitnofmaneciallyithismoderacaneconusngm and oneof the oldest established precedents in the Camarilla is that a Tremere Chantry is an individual do main accountable only to the clan.A prince who attempts to interfere in, or wortrcanuwithithhantryvitsthwratf Vinhisco

Recommendations of the Conclave: The prince is advised to give as wellas take when it comes to do main.Recognizing that the elders of a realm each have an individual do main with inhis dmain whre the ymayfreelypursue the irindividual goals inrelative autonomy will win the respect of those elders.Subsequently, the prince will find that, rather than giving away his city, hehas strengthened his rule.Those elders controlling an are a, so long as they respect the prince's authority, will police the mselves (and each othermuchmorefiercelyandefficientlythanthe princeevercould.The princewill also ensure loyalty by maintaining the illusion of having "given" an are a of a do main to a particularldemainandthanfulandlyalfwhatwasaleadisandhan that elerwithadministratingitintheprincesname not everyldrwillacept sucha rule, instead waiting to make the irmove.In this case a prince should never hesitate to eliminate suchelders.this maintainstheimpressionthat the elder's poweristhe princes to give and receive. of action is not recommended. ## THOUSHALT SIRE ONLYWITHTHEPERMISSIONOFTHINEELDER. IFTHOUCREATESTANOTHERWITHOUTTHINEELDER'SLEAVE, BOTHTHOUANDTHYPROGENYSHALLBESLAIN. This is the most ironclad of the Traditions.The power of the prince is dependent on how tightlyheholdstothis Tradition.faprinceistoorestrictivehewillfrustratehe Kindred with inhis do main.his results in progenybeing created with out his permission, or outsidehisdomainand the n turnedlooseasachallengetohis authority Ifa prince is toolenient, the number of progeny ina do main will explode and produce nevitable conflicts. Fights over feeding grounds, herds a and dpositionwillresultfrom sucha population increase, threatening the stability of the prince's reign. Recommendations of the Conclave: The prince must establish a firm policy on progeny, as any deviation from an initilly declared policy will bring alegations f favoritism and spark revolt. Conclusively and quickly answering the many questions raised ——Are ghouls considered progeny?—— is a must, else those concerns will fester. the reare othermatters that must be taenintoaccunt aswell.pecifically, a prince must be careful not to create a large brood while restricting the rights of others to Embracesnthinilllnatthprimgenfastethaeinut-easitwer

THOSETHOUCREATESTARETHINEOWNCHILDREN, UNTILTHYPROGENYSHALLBERELEASED, THOUSHALTCOMMANDTHEMINALLTHINGS. the IRSINSARETHINETOENDURE. The interpretation of this Tradition has varied across the centuries.The most frequently invoked interpretation is also one of the strictest:Any Kindred must be responsible for the actions of his or herdirect progenyuntil such time as that progeny's release into Kindred society.the re have been different applications of the Fourth Traditinweverome princespatiuarlnth Cntinent, avmadta d of hislanoterietthat Kinedmust alacethpunismentsrtransresion of individual members or elserelinquish leadership.Those princes who have implemented this type of interpretational ethic have reported some successa after initial resistance, as than in getting hauled up before the prince every time a neonate makes a misstep. Recommendations of the Conclave:Responsibility and accountability must be the hallmarks of Kindred society.Many Kindred will ballk at an overly strict interpretation of the Fourth Tradition, and manyprincesattemptingtoimplement suchinterpretations will be in for more trouble than they bargained for.how ever, as the millennium approaches, princes are advisedtoimpressuponthose Kindred with in the ir do mainsthe importance of taking responsibility, both for the ir own actions and the actions of those Ignoranceis noexcuse for not addressingthe problemsofadomain, and looking the the r

## HONORONE ANOTHER'SDOMAIN. when THOUCOMESTTOAFOREIGNCITY, THOUSHALTPRESENTTHYSELFTOTHEONEWHORULETHTHERE. with OUTTHEWORDOFACCEPTANCE,THOUARTNOTHING. this Tradition is the cornerstone of the Camarilla, and its interpretationisas strict nowasve Thrreanncreainumbf Kindedwhunttheibility, d to tremendous difculties in ascertaining which Kindred are where, when.With somany advanceintranportatitisdifficltetracfthvementfmanyanill and neonates. Journeys that used to take months through Lupine-infested woods now takemerehours on Harley-Davidsons In the faceofaquickly shinkingworld, this Tradition must remain sacrosanct.with out knowledge, a prince has no power.with out knowledge of who resides in his do main, a prince can not control that do main.Hence, the Fifth Tradition must be upheld with more vigor, lest the sanctity of a prince's do main, Recommendationsofth Conclave the re will alwaysbeminoroffendersagainst this Tradition, but in the se threatening times such laxity can not be tolerated.Any Kindred caught in violation of this Tradition who can bemade an example of, must be made an example of.A prince who is not sought out for introduction is a prince ignored. A prince ignored will not be feared. A prince who is not feared is a prince deposed. the very foundationof the Camarilla, crumblebefore the technologicalonslaught. Ona practicallevel, princes should enlist the ir subjectsassistance inenforcing this open for newcomers, including those who may not want the ir presence known. ## Cheixth Cradition-estruction

THOUARTFORBIDDENTODESTROYANOTHEROFTHYKIND. the RIGHTOFDESTRUCTIONBELONGETHONLYTO THINEELDER. ONLYTHEELDESTAMONGTHEESHALLCALLTHEBLOODHUNT. A prince may only rule so long as a prince is feared.A prince is feared only solong asheiswillingtocrushal—friendorfoe who violate the Traditions.the lood Hunt is of ten a means of last resort, and those Kindred who have the Blood Hunt called upon say, are the victims of political for tune.The one factor that unites all Blood Hunts is that they are a device of political expediency.Ifa prince wants tomake an example out of a particular Kindred, calling a Blood Hunt to show his power is the best way to do so. Simultaneusly, thprinccrushesthffeeranddmnstratestfllyfde the prince's authority. Recommendations of the Conclave: A Blood Hunt must never be called lightly, nor should a princebelieve that herentire do main will risein arms against the perpetrator. Aprince must beever-vigilanttothe possible consequences of the calling of a Blood Hunt. opportuitftisibltatreynito one. This is especially likelyif the target of the hunt had anyassets that were valuable.A of herenemytonoticeorcareabout the specific reasonsforthecallingofthelood Hunt — and that is the inherent danger in calling the Hunt. When the Blood Hunt becomes of do omfordisbeiece aprinwilfndherselfrulinaldthirstymthatman that sheinvokethis power for the slightest transression.In this situation, the prince is nolongeared Idd, as thldrs are happil devouring achother, th prin w accommodates the irevery whim becomes an object of scorn and ridicule.To maintain its beheld as sacredbyall Kinded, and it fallonthe should erofthe princetomake thi so.Familiarity in all things, even the Blood Hunt, breeds contempt. When invoking Blood Hunt, it is recommended that a prince have hard evidence readily available incase the rationaleforthe Hunt is questioned Itmaybe necessary t do minatedorotherwisemadeconvincing.Itisbest for the princeif problem Kindredcan be removedwithout invoking the lood Hunt.how ever, it is recommended that this action be performed by the prince herselfin the utmost secrecy (savewhen an example is being made), so that an enemy finds a minimum of skeletons in the closet. ## Advisories on nemies of the amarilla

A second reason for the convocation of the Conclave was to create an opportunity for Camarilla members to a advise and inform one another about potential all ies and enemies.the changes in mortalsociety with in the last centuryalonehave producedagreat towhichtheldenemies of the Camarillanowhaveaccess, the inevitableconclusionhat is reachedis that this is a time of unprecedented danger.the Conclave fees the urgent need to address the se threats and of fer recommendations for all members to follow visd-vis dealing with the m in the most efficient manner possible. ## THE SABBAT

This sect remains the most dangerous foe of the Camarilla, and few princes have not had some sort of encounter with the Sabbat.We have been collecting data on the se Kindred since the irinitialformation, and many Conclaves and councilsofwarhavebeen held on this one s subject alone. Itis recognized that individual Sabbat vampires may succesfully infiltrate a do main for years, subverting and destroying from with in while passing information to the ir sect's leaders.Prines are advised tdallintheirpowertindanddestroytheespies, asthy pose a far greater threat than do zens of the ir so-called "Crusades." A do zen poorlyplanned aaultcaneatenffeasilyutnewllanedneabettedbytra stands a much higher chance of succeeding. Recommendations of the Conclave: Any incursion by Sabbat vampires must be halted before itbeins Sabbat presence inacitytends toincrease exponentilly, thusthe soonerititted, easiritisradicatththand Cahyisttati are most definitely not recommended, as heavy-handed tactics tend todrive disaffected anarchs directly into the Sabbat's arms. Itis vital that tight controlofacitys media be maintained during a Sabbat attack; passing of f the ir crimes and breaches of the Masquerade as the actions of a "serial killer" works well. ## ANARCHS

Ifthe Sabbatarethe daggerpointedatourthroats, the anarchs are the bomb waiting Eventheistronghold, Los Angeles, remainsacitydividedby pettydispute.heanarcs tobemuchofathreat.In truth, most sensible Kindred considerthe anarchstobelapsed

Camarillajustgoingthrougharebellious phase Still, the yarecapableofdeadlytantrum. Recommendations of the Conclave:Anarchs make excellent can non fodder, particulalyifyoucanconvincethemthat you r waris the irs.Setupashadowenemyfor rmovthadhthayanddldfryuwiutein the yvebenaddranachavhwtandteaganthatthyill the ir owbrthreninexchangefor securfeedingroundsorsuchlikeprivlees Muh of the irrancoraainst the irldersispoorlydisguised envy, and this can xlotd. ## AsSAMITES this clanof diabolistshasmadeno secretofitscontempt bothforthe Camarilla and our Tradtons Hwever, yhavdtmelaccountablett TreatyfT than ks to the efforts of our Tremere.Openly resentful of the Camarilla and its power, the Assamites yet showa healthy respect for the collctive power the Camarilla can muster Perhaps the memory of the infiltrationof Alamut is yet freshwith the m.Only the Tremere have much to wory about from the Assamites as a group.Otherwise, the danger from the Assasins lies ontheindividuallevel.Evenmembers of ourownsect are not abovehiringthe Assamitestoerformasasnations, and manyprinceshave falen to the ir blades. Recommendations of the Conclave: The Asamites are powerful all is and dangerous enemies. A prince must not interfere with an individual Asamite and his affairs, stthat prineindhimelfunwittinlymakinfrhselfalaceinthoseaffa A wise prince can make good use of Assamite talents, either employing the m as bodyguards or by s sending the m against non-Camarlla rivals. Contracting fellow the Assamites, how ever lest he find himself either indebted to the Assassins or too dependentnthemfortaskwhicoughttbapablfpforminimsefrnc subjects of sucha prince will takeit upon the mselves to remove him for the sakeof the peace of the city. ## FOLLOWERSOFSET

This clan has made no secret of its intention toestablish worldwide do minion at the expeneoftheirfellow Kindred.Itisclearthatofallthenon-alignedclansofthe Kinded the Fllwers of Set pose the greatest threat to the security of the Camarll.While individual princes have in the past tolerated the Followers of Set asalesserevilwhen comparedth Sabbat, this asresltdintheucheckedspeadofthetits across princes congratulate the mselves onhaving supposedly used the Snakes as a buffer against the Sabbat. the Folowers of Set have proven the mselves tobedangerous, subtle manipulators of both Caarilandinehytraiavrandadictionsandmapnf subetingmany Kdredasibltthil Thtll overrun the city: blood in the streets and another fallen prince. Recommendations of the Conclave:The Followers of Set are to be destroyed whnpiayqlqltthntet restrictstheopportunities Setitepawns have toinformonorsabotageanti Setiteefforts. well-beingfanycitythusthratninth Masquradeanddistractingrsurcem the campaign against the Setites. Most Kindred with in a do main see the Followers of Set as little more than the supplierfsandduandthisiswherethdanel Ulzinttit resourcesresources that can be taken away at the worst possible time Restrict access to Setitecontareastaevrypportuitytlminateindividuletites witut resortingtlood Huntorthelie, and aboveallnotdealwiththemvennxtremis. The pricis alwaystoohigh Asipling put it,"Oncene pays than eeld, ne nevr gets rid of the Dane." 77

## GIOVANNI ee unfortunate Cappadocianincident has madeitimossiblefullytointegratethemintthe Camarilla yetinmanyaffrs, wehavehadoodrelations with t Nermaners.h has been frictiononanindividuallevelinthe pastbetweenmembersofthe Giovanniand individual princes, but suchincidents have always been is olated.the Giovannialway attempttworkwellwiththprincofanycitythyccupy, inthcogentbelifthat strf is badforusinesshywildttherancient detreminnutralwhany more entrepreneurial Kindredhavhadsuces inworkinwiththm Still it shot beforgottenthatthyhavtheiwagendaandhouldaprinethwatitteyill attempt to remove him summarily. Recommendations of the Conclave: A princeis advised to work with the Giovanni presence in the citytoensure that they won'tbeactivelymoving against him.It is both easierand safertoattempt todissuadea Giovannifroma course of actionthan toattempt simplytstphimtisbst thavemultiple contat with inthclan, that iyouar for cedtdealwithn pemanentlyuavechael throuhwhichucanstify you r "no do ubt necessary" 7 actions to Venice. ## RAVNOS the se gypsies have made the ir contempt for the Camarilla and its ways well- known. for tunately, they are not an overt threat to the Camarill, nor do they endanger the Masquerade.As such, the Ravnos only occupy a place on this list due to the ir open defiance of the Camarilla'sauthority Very few Ravnos will bothertopresent the mselves, and thswdaeuualpocetedmethingluablenthiwautaditn, itisdificltttellfapaticularindividualncounteredis Ravnoranantitiand the latter wil lay up this confusion for llit is worth. Recommendations of the Conclave:A prince is advised to treat all individual Ravnos as if they were potentilly in the employ of the Sabbat.It is a common Sabbat tactitosend Ravosantitbuncoutingmisionst Camarihlddomainsandty don't seem tohaverealized that this tactic was uncovered and countered long ago.Non Sabbat Rasshoulbehandldwithkidlovesandgentlyusheedfromteityst the yinvite some of the irfellowclanmembers tojointheir fun Calling Blood Hunton Ravnosisinevitablymore trouble than itisworth, and it can producea devastating retribution. ## LUPINES

The Lupine presence aroundmost do mains is inescapable, and poses a problem for most princes Whileitisrarefor Lupinestotakeacitbystrm, the ycancertainlyrestrit encirclingupinesusuallyendindisaster duetothesuperirstrengthofeachindividual were wolf.Additionally, t the Lupines are capable of gathering the irnumberswith astonishing speed, and apparentlyhave the impetus of religious fanaticismbehind the ir desire to wipe us from the planet.All in all, they make a most dangerous foe. Recommendations of the Conclave: The Lupine presence has traditionally been limited tothecountryside.the reare Lupines who choose toliveinthecity, but they remainadistinctminority.the bestwaytocombatthe Lupinesshould they poseathreat remains the same as always:Cut do wn the ir for ests, pollute the irrivers, setup some they can't find the ir enemies, they will attackwhatever is in front of the m instead.A prince can best defeat the Lupine bymaintaininga strict Masquerade, observing the ir actions from a safe distance.The late Lodin's confrontational tactics have proven an unprecedenteddisaster, and should aprince wishtmulatethem, wewouldrequestlist of his next of kin to not ify as to his incipient demise. For example, witness the recent train of events in Chicago. Lodin, the n prince, foolishlycalldalood Huntonevery Lupineinthecity Whilethereweregainsat first, the savae ferocityand sheer numbers of the Lupine counterattack for ced the primogen (afterthe destructionofthe prince)to sueforpeace Tothisnight, the situationremains tenuous in Chicago, yetit serves as a reminderfor Kindred that the Lupines, even with the ir numbers dwindling, are still a very real threat. Kindred gathered at the St.Louis Conclave.It is the intention of this letter to provide the princes of the Camarilla and interested elders with updated, relevant information concerning the role of princedomin Camarill society, and the stresses unique to princes in the modern era.This letter summarizes the results of the debates, presentations, symposiums and other activities of the Conclave, and is intended as a fair and open representative of the conclusions reached by the Conclave participants. ## Princes of not e

## Siegfried, Prince of Vancouver

This ancient Ventrue was or iginally a Visigoth chieftain.His sire, a Roman consul named Regulus, of fered the chieftain the chance for immortality, but did n't tell him the terms.When the chieftain realized he had becomeoneof the Draugar(the Undead), heslewhis sireinafitofrage and the ndranktheblood from his heart.the Ventruepursued him across Europe for hiscrime, but never brought him to justice.for hispart, Siegfriedwas quite content to exist outside of the clan.He never chose to accept the Ventrue or the ir traditions, insteaddecidingtoforgehisownpath. Remaining aloof from Kindredpolitics, Siegfriedchoseanexistence as awanderer.Eventuallyhis travelsledhim to the westcoastof North America.Herehefoundanuntamedlandthatwould beperfectforhim to establish his do main and remain safe from the Jyhad.Using his powers of persuasion and the financial capital that he had accumulated over the centurieshesetaboutbuildingandexpandingthehumansettlementsinthe are a.this was no easy task, as the rewere constant attacksfrom the Lupines and the ir Native Americanalliesinanattempttostemthetideof European migration.how ever, the Visigothbeat the m all back and usedhisgrowing international influence to encourage the city'sgrowth.Heused his own financestobankroll many of the city'sfirstindustries, walkeditsbordersat nighttoprotect itfromincursion, and protected the kine livingwithin the

*not e: Siegfried first appeared in Dark all iance:Vancouver city during the dark and cold first nights of the city'sexistence.His influence enabled Vancouver to grow into one of the largest cities in can ada.Many other princes are envious of just how muchcontroland autonomy Seigfreid has beenabletoassertoverhiscity, but they do not seethepainstakingwork that heputinto its creation.Siegfried is not just the Prince of Vancouver, he is also its founder and protector. Infact, Siegfried did not declarehimselfprinceuntilthe1940s.Hehad beencontenttoremain inthebackground, all owing Vancouvertobecome a neutral groundbetween the warring factions of Kindred.Unfortunately, this attracted the attention of the anarchs, who began touse the city asa stagingbaseintheirwarforthecities of the westcoast.Realizingthathewas facingaveryrealwar between the Camarilla and the anarchs in the middle of a cityhehad helpedtocreate, hedeclared himself princetoforestallthe conflict.He also instituted asetof harsh laws that brokethepower of the clanswithin the citywhileproviding comfort and security for those that chosetoaccepttheprincesrule.this ensured himadocile, unifiedpopulace with which to face the resurgent Lupine threat. The harshness of the prince's laws and the brutality with which they were enforced enabled Vancouver to become a rarity in Kindred society; Vancouver is ruled only by its prince. the re is no open help from the primogen or otherclan leaders, or from the otherclans, for that matter.His rule is recognized neither by the Camarilla nor the Sabbat. Vancouver has attained the status of a neutral city where any Kindred may petition the prince to stay so long as they choose to accept his laws.It is also one of the few cities that has successfully maintained peace with the Lupines. Siegfried has also cultivated his personal power. Several princes owe boons to him, and the peace that he has enforced in the city has impressed the elders of the Camarilla.Though they are loath to admit it, the Justicars of the Camarilla consider Siegfried's success in Vancouver a standard against which all other princes should model the ir efforts. ## Dr.Alexander Meuser, Prince of Jerusalem

During the Zionist movement of the late19th century, many European intellectualswere swept upin the excitement of the movement dedicated to creation of a Jewish homeland. One such intellectual was Dr.Meuser.A philosopher and speaker on such is sues, he traveled across Europe rallying support for the Zionist movement. His intelligence, combined with his ferocity and zeal at debating, attracted the attention of a Brujahelder.Meuser was Embraced, and once certain politicalrealitieswerepointed out tohim, he became just as fierce a warrior in the Jyhad as he had beenfor Jerusalem.Of particular interest to Meuserwerethesimilaritiesbetweenthe Jewishpeopleandthe Brujah:Both had been crushedby Rome;bothweredeliberatelymisunderstood by the society around the m;and bothwanted tore-createorreclaimtheirhome. Meuser soon became intrigued attheidea of combining the twogoals, possibly reestablishing a society based upon Brujah ideals in the Holy Land. Meuser'sactivitiescontinued duringthe2Othcentury as heledbandsof Zionists in fighting against the British occupation of Palestine and the Ventrue"administrators"who occupied the land.with the onset of World War Il, hedevotedhimself to helpingescapeesfromthe campsmakealiyah, or immigrateto Palestine. After World WarII, Meuserused the status and influencethathehad gainedtoassertpowerover Jerusalem and what would laterbecomeknown as is rael.the British Ventruehad attemptedintheirusual colonial fashion to rule over the Palestinians and had metwith unprecedented failure.Both the politickingofvarious Inconnu and the Setitesweretoblameforthis failure, but Meuserwasmoreconcernedwithmortalaffairs.Instrumentalin the creationof the Stateof is rael, he asserted himself asprince and began working to developthe is raeli nation and provideforitspeople. Alexander

To the other ancients, he portrayed himself not as aruler, like the British Ventruehad, but as adiplomatof the Camarilla'sinterestsinthe region.this moveprovedtobepoliticallysuccessful, reassuringthe Camarilla bluenoses that Meuser'spowerwas titular only, and that Kindredaffairsof the city were in the hands of the city's much older, more acceptable inhabitants.While Meuserhadweakenedhimselfpolitically，hisfigurehead status as princeleft the responsibility of maintaining the Traditions to the city'selders.In the meantime, Meuserwasfree tobuild all iances, mediate disputes and otherwisebuild are al power base for himself. Duringthe Cold War, Meuserandhisdomainfaced incredibleviolence as the region'sfactionalism and brushfirewars flared outof control. In additiontothemanydifferentclansof the Camarilla, Meuserfound that his do main included a largepopulation of Assamites and Setites.Occasional incisionsofanarchsand Sabbataddedto the volatilityofthemix.the se Kindredseemedonlyconcernedwiththeirowngoals, and they increasedthe amount of violence in the are a to an unimaginable extent.Many Kindred who were Embracedinthearea alsochose tobringtheirrivalrieswith the m beyond the grave.Itwas——and still is—not unusual to see is raeli Brujah and Ventrue fightingfiercely against the ir Palestinian counterparts. Inthecftutkigdtt toexerthiowernsteadelyingonsubtleallianceshateadforgedi the Kindred ancients of Jerusalem.all of the following were subtly drawn to Meuser's banner:a coterie of Ventrue who were Embraced during the Crusades, a brood of Nosferatu Noddists who wished to excavate the catacombsdeepbeneaththecityinsearchofcluesabout the secondcity, and a substantial population of Brujahidealists who sawin the citya possibility of rebuilding Carthage. Combining this potent coalition with his sway over the is raeligovernment, Meuserfound hisrule tobefar smoother than hehad anyrighttoexpect. Meuser's rule has not been with out adversity.His successes and failures have mirrored the modern history of is rael in the Gothic-Punk world.The currentpeaceplanforthe Middle Eastisreflectiveof Meuser'sefforts, but the recent assassination of Yitzhak Rabin highlights his inability to completely control his do main.Violence between Jews and Arabs once again threatens. The Ventrue elders, a coterie of Knights Templar Embraced during the Crusades, wish to renew the ir of f again-on again war with the Assamites. And Meuser is convinced that the Followers of Set exertfarmore control Overthe is raeli government than he had previously been led tobelieve.Still, he walks the halls of the Knesset, do ing his best for both hispeoplesin even the darkest hours. ## Robert Pedder, Prince of Hong Kong

The prince, or Tai Pan, as he is known with in his own do main, has shaped the growth and expansion of the British Colony of Hong Kong throughout its history.Hebegan hispresenceinthecitybyexertingcontrol over the tradingventures.His mortal family, one of the more powerful Britishmerchant houses, had traveledto Hong Kongwiththe Britishduring the Colonial Era.for this reasonhewas Embraced, and what evercontrol he exerted over the city's trade as a mortal was only increased after his death. from hiscontrolover tradeinthecolony, Pedderincreased and diversified his influence.Eventuallyhe gained control over all aspects of the colony's government and transportation sectors, which inturn ledto control of the cityinitsentirety. the Tai Panhasasizablebroodwhichhelpshimtoruleoverhisdomain. He has worked hard to make his rule over the city both peaceful and profitable, and if he were ruling over any other city, his success and accomplishmentswouldmakehimoneof the mostpowerful princesinthe Camarilla.Unfortunately, the vagaries of mortal politics affecthisrule. In1997, the cityof Hong Kongwill revertcontrol backto China, and tomany of the Kindredin the city, this means that the mysterious Asian vampiresarereadytotakethecitybyforce.Inthepastfewyears, Pedderhas

*not e: Pedder first appeared in A World of Darkness. not ed some disastrous encounters his own for ceshave had with mysterious vampiresfromthemainland.Whilehehasoffered to sharehisobservations with the rest of the Camarilla, noone elsehas anythingto add towhat he already knows.His enemy, the n, remains an unknown. the Ventrue are not ignorant of his plight, how ever.Pedder has long held a sterlingreputationwithin the clan for his quiet, consistent service. His accomplishments in ruling and maintaining a do main in such a hostile are a have given Pedder an enviablereputation among the eldersof his clan. Pedderis already the front-runner tobecome the next Ventrue Justicar; manywhisperthatitisaconsolationprizeforthelossof hisbelovedcity of Hong Kong. Reduced towatching ashisvery do main systematicallyfleesthe is land, Pedder seesmany of the elders of the city are moving the irresources and herds else where.Many of the more recent Kindred arrivals are setting up quickventures and the n abandoning the city once they'vemade a pile of cash.As1997looms closer, Pedder is for ced towatchas all he has builtis systematicallydismantled.Heis alsofacedwiththeloss of status that comes from no longer being prince.Fewprinces in the Camarilla have ever given up a do main, yetthis is exactlywhat Pedderisbeingforcedtodo. ## His Eminence and Benevolent Grace, Lord Magnus Rex Mundi

Of all the princes of the Camarilla, none is asfamous among hispeers as His Royal Eminence, Lord Magnus. The reputation of Lord Magnus precedes him.Depending upon which tales you hear, he is a soon to be memberof the Inconnu, hehasbattled the Sabbat, Black Hand, and the Lupines, hehasfoughtmages, heisfriendswith all the Justicars, and the Inner Circle of the Camarillaregularly consult him for advice. and ifyou listentothepeoplewhoknowthetruth, you will alsolearn that he do esnot exist. Lord Magnus is believed to have been the brain child of a coterie of Malkavian and Toreador Harpieswhosought toembarrass the current prince of the ircity.Lord Magnus, aso-calledancient Ventrue, soon"appeared"(via anancilla's Obfuscatepowers)walkingaroundthe Elysium, sendinglettersto the primogen declaring himself the new prince, and basically actinglike a pompous, foolish parody of the target of the Harpies'ire. The results of the prankwere not unexpected.Humiliated, the prince attempted to destroy this"Lord Magnus"and anyone associated with him. The primogenremainedsilentyetitsoonbecameclearthattheyweresubtly

## rinces rimer supporting the coterie who had created the phantom.The prince becamea laughingstock with in his own city, and was soon removed from power.His work do ne, Lord Magnus disappeared. how ever, wordof the mysteriousord Magnus soonpreadand lett from the mysterious eldersoon appeared inother cities as well.Lord Magnus soon began topopup all over the worldhis everyincarnation a omous parody of the prince of what ever city he appeared in. Lord Magnusregularly sends letters to the Justicars, giving his adviceon the state of Kindred affairs. He appears at regular intervals in both New or leans and Rio de Janeirofor Mardi Gras.the Prince of Rio de Janeiro has even appointed Lord Magnus as Seneschal and reserves a suite of hotel rooms for him when he arrives.Where and when Lord Magnus will show up is a mystery, but Magnus sightings are always a social event, much like the Kindred equivalent of watchingfor the Loch Nessmonster. At present, itisrumored that asecret groupof Toreador, Malkavians, Brujah, Ravnos and even some Tremere and Ventrue are responsible for staging sightings of Lord Magnus.His appearances are always designed to criticize and ridicule aharsh, unpopularorunwise prince.Some princeshave failed to get the joke, and Blood Hunts have been calledon Lord Magnus in no fewer than nine cities.Most princes can gauge the relative popularity of the ir reign by whether or not Lord Magnus appears in the ir do main. The phantom only remains for as long as he is paid attention to.He will sometimesstayinan are aformonthsatatime, othertimesforonlyafew weekshere is nopattern to his appearances that can be discerned, and this is part of his power. Lord Magnus has acquired mythic status in Kindred society.Infact, Lord Magnus sightings are the Kindredequivalentof Elvis sightings, with onelik or another claimingtohavemet the mysteriouselderinconveniencestores or Elysiums.Lord Magnus appears infrequently, though his most recent appearancewas at the St.Louis Conclave, where his letter(which detailed, amongotherthingshowprimogenshouldbeignoredoractivelypersecuted by most princes.In addition, it postulated that a prince could ignore violationsofthe Traditionsifhisownlackeyswereinvolved)was readtothe membersoftheassemblyandconsideredforinclusioninthereporttobefiled with the Justicars.The Conclave than ked Lord Magnusfor his advice, and Lord Magnus announcedthathewouldbe spending the nextfewyears studyingwiththe Inconnu, all of who m are hisclosepersonal friends. ## Christian, Brujah Elder

An outspoken enemy of the very concept of princedom and the author of A Manifesto on Becoming Prince, Christian was a fervent believer in the Anarch Revolt.Fanatical in his devotion, when the leaders of the revolt chose to submit to the whim of the Camarilla elders, Christian was crushed. He swore that he would never give up the fight and tromped of f to carry on his one-vampire war.Furthermore, he swore to crush his contemporaries, especially for mer anarchs, by supporting revolt behind the scenes. He nearly joined with the Sabbat, the rumor runs, but decided against taking the chance of having his associates sell him out again. Cut of f from every sect, Christiansoonbecame the self-appointed enemy of the statusquo in Kindred society, appearing in any are a where the prince was felt to be particularly unjust.His harsh manner has made him many enemies, and Christian wears the number of Blood Hunts called on him by various princes as abadge of pride.how ever, Christian has never been reprimanded by his ownclan, sincehehasrepeatedlymaintained that hewill will inglyrecognize any authority that is just. Of course, Christian has his own idea of what constitutes a just authority. Christian has currently found himself the prince of a respectably sized city in the midwestern United States.His ascension to the princedom was not intentional, but came as the result of a sudden Sabbat assault, during which he was instrumental in fighting of f the invasion.Ironically, as the newlyappointedprince, Christiannowfindshimselfinthesame positionhe has criticized so harshly.He also knows that he is beingwatched by the elders of the Camarilla, and, duetohispast, Christianknowshewill eheldtohis own claims onhow a prince should rule. Experience the undead at the heightof the ir power.Vampire:the Dark Ages takes you to the twelfth century, when the Kindred ride as lords.Unfetteredby any Masquerade, they build kingdoms and bathe in blood. Glory and terror await in the shadows of the past...but beware, the darkness you need fear most is the darkness with in you rsef. Vampire:the Dark Agesis a hardbound stand-alone game that is completely compatible with Vampire:the Masquerade. Coming in Spring,1996

Vampire The Masqueradeisa Registered Trademarkand Vapire The Dark Agesisa Trademark of White Wolf Ine all rights reserved. BROBAKER a5

## LaWSOF HINHET

The Pocket Guide to Mind's Eye the atre. All the Rules. All the Clans. All the Disciplines. All Together. JULY

Gathered here for you r edification and study are the thoughtsonrulingofahalf-do zen of the finestpolitical minds the Kindred have to of fer.It is a dignified, reasoned collection of essays and not es intended to instruct ambitious Kindred in the tactics and techniques of successful, peaceful do minion. "My only payment for the secrets give you is you r success, for it means that some traitor I knew five centuries gone has seen his last sunset." the n again, maybe not. The Prince's Primer is a resource for Vampire:The Masquerade and Mind's Eye the atre.It contains: - Thoughts from princes, anarchs and others on how to rule a city successfully
- The infamous "A Manifesto on Becoming g Prince"
- Conclave reports, Tremere treatises, anarch memos and more!