# A Harpy's Primer

This supplement for Vampire: The Masquerade provides a guide to the position of Harpy within the Camarilla. The harpy position is often overlooked as a bookkeeping position, tracking status and recording boons, but the position has the potential to be much more. In the right hands, a harpy can be a very powerful tool and compelling character story. This is the first of three parts designed to help players and storytellers utilize the harpy as more than a bookkeeper.

## Purpose and Scope

- This is a guide to help those interested in playing a harpy.
- Designed to help both new and experienced players understand the history of the harpy position.
- The harpy can be a very intimidating position, but can offer a compelling and intriguing obstacle for players to overcome.
- New players can use it to help understand the position and utilize it to enhance their roleplay.
- Experienced players can enrich their knowledge and use this as a way to expand their roleplaying.
- Storytellers are welcome to use what works for their games and adapt what they need to fit their story.
- This packet uses the rules for V20 Vampire the Masquerade specifically, but can be adapted for other editions as needed.

## Introduction

This is the first part of the Harpy Primer, a guide to the position of Harpy within the Camarilla. The position of harpy can be a very hard role to play, both for storytellers and players, yet the position is very important to the integrity of the Camarilla. The following is a guide to help those interested in playing a harpy. The history of the position, what is all included with the power of the harpy, socializing and snubs, and the organization of harpies themselves.

## So You Are a Harpy

One of the strongest positions within the Camarilla is harpy. The harpy position is often overlooked as a bookkeeping position, tracking status and recording boons. But the position has the potential to be much more. In the right hands, a harpy can be a very powerful tool and compelling character story.

The harpy is a court position within the Camarilla. A harpy can move into the position by just acting like the harpy. Should a domain decide that the current harpy no longer serves them in the way they want, they can recognize someone else. No vote is needed in ascending to the position. Sometimes an individual will be appointed to the position, but this is rare. If a domain is very young or very new, sometimes a harpy will be appointed by the Primogen Council until the court is established and the citizens of the domain have time to establish themselves. These harpies tend to be short lived, as they may be better suited for other roles, or want to establish themselves in other ways. It is believed that a harpy should be able to stand out within the court, being recognizable to those new or visiting, and easily seen in a crowd.

**Clan Toreador** was the most prevalent clan to step up to this position, taking cues from the founders of the Camarilla themselves and forging the position into what they saw was the ideal Camarilla office. Toreador were often connected with others in their clan, and their reach over information sharing was far and wide. Being a high clan made ascending into the position easy, even for the younger members of the clan. Many Toreador have found it very easy to ascend to the ranks of the harpies, often times sweeping the support of many different clans in their domains. Clan Toreador used this to their advantage, positioning their clan to be a dominating force within the sect. Clan Toreador will use their influences and sway to move the Camarilla into the direction they see fit, frequently influencing politics races as a result.

### Important Reminders for New Harpies

- Repeat after me: "I am not a bookkeeper." Got it? Good. Continue to repeat that to yourself until you actually believe it.
- You would be surprised at how many kindred are lazy and don't keep track of their own boons. It is the mortal equivalent of losing millions of dollars a year and just shrugging. It is reckless and irresponsible. And it is their own fault, not yours, if they forget their boons.
- You don't have to keep a log. All you need to do is arbitrate between the two kindred if they cannot come to a mutual agreement on payment. Boons are our money, the value we hold within our society. It doesn't serve you any good to forget this system.
- And don't get me started on status! It seems as though neonates continually think everything should be equal and fair, and that is not how this works. You have to work for your piece of the pie. What good is a hollow victory when you barely have to work to achieve accolades? No, it is better to earn your victories. Our sect rewards those who serve it and help to protect it. That is how it has survived for centuries and will continue to survive into the future.

## A Harpy History

So who was the first harpy within the Camarilla? That question is harder to answer than providing a name and clan. The mantle of the harpy arises organically from social order amongst vampires. The position itself is not comparable to any single position in any of the mortal courts. Instead, it is built around the need for vampires to have a way to keep each other occupied without risking their own unlives. It is very likely that several were already socialites before the official formation of the Camarilla, acting in Elysiums and salons around the globe; they just did not have the system of prestation to codify everything across the world. The position grew organically from the need for organization, accountability, and measurable authority over social structures, which is why harpies are appointed by acceptance in a domain rather than being voted upon. Democracy has little place within the Camarilla.

There are other rumors that the prestation system was created before the official founding of the Camarilla, and was used as the basis for determining support for rulership in an area. Vampires in each domain who were in support of a status system would have evaluated other kindred within their domain and ranked them, passing that information up their social ladder. From there, the higher a vampire was in the rankings, the more privilege and power they were given at the formation. It was a covert way to ensure that strong leaders were in place at the beginning, eliminating confusion and weak or compromised individuals from claiming praxis over an area the Camarilla wanted. In this way, the prestation system was designed first and foremost as a protection against weak leaders within the sect. Only the strongest can rule and protect the domain, and with Camarilla vampires, social strength is far superior to physical strength.

Even if these are just rumors, the position of the harpy is there to maintain the structure of the Ivory Tower. If there are weak spots, it can cause the collapse of the tower in an area, weakening the sect as a whole. The harpy is a way to weed out those too weak to understand their place and strengthen themselves, and in turn strengthening the power of the Camarilla. Yes, it means many are slotted to remain on the bottom of the tower, supporting those above, but those above offer protection and stability, and more importantly, a system to move up and down with each political power play. As long as they stay within those parameters of the sect, a vampire will be protected as she moves against her enemies; gains support for her ideas, garner favors, and knocks down those above her. A vampire can be on the bottom and still be very powerful if she plays her cards right.

### Rumors Surrounding Harpies

The position of harpy isn't without its rumors either, as those who serve the position tend to be vague as to the workings of the structure. Because of the secretive nature of information dispersion and how harpies operate it is a reasonable assumption that there is speculation as to the organization of harpies. A harpy who is able to keep the secret of their position is trusted more with information that could be of value, and that is very important to remain a harpy. Harpies depend on each other to succeed in their positions as much as they depend on their domains support. After all, a harpy alone is not as powerful as a harpy that is well connected.

**The Council of Scales** is one rumor that the harpies are interested in. Some harpies have claimed membership to the informal group; however, the membership only has a few within its ranks. Harpies pay attention to the actions and influences of the Council of Scales, eager to see how they sway the direction of the Sect, and anticipating a power grab from the harpies. Since the Council of Scales has been known to work directly with princes, harpies are ever vigilant as to make sure they remain nothing more than a casual group. Should their reach extend further into the territory of the harpy, it stands to reason that the harpies would get up in arms over it and call scandal. Since that has not yet happened, the two groups dance around each other, waiting for the moment to move.

**The Grand Harpy** is another rumor - a sort of matriarch that all other harpies follow when it comes to making decisions. Other rumors are that the Grand Harpy was the first harpy within the sect, being appointed this special position by the Inner Circle themselves and with the jurisdiction over every Camarilla domain. This Grand Harpy has been said to be able to overturn any harpy on a decision, and the offending harpy cannot do anything against it. It is said that any who serve as harpy must pledge their allegiance to this individual, or be overthrown. There is much speculation to this position, as harpies are frequently in heated discussions which go against a unified pledge to one individual. The identity of the Grand Harpy is not known, though if rumors are to be believed, the current one is a Toreador who resides in New York. While no actual evidence has been found for this position, the rumors and discussions behind this position come up frequently in domains all over the world.

## A Social Affair

The perception of the harpy is that they are preening for attention and nothing more than gossipers and seeking attention. While harpies generally love being the center of attention, they use that as a way to garner information from unsuspecting kindred who love to talk freely. Harpies will give out praise to those they want information from. They hope to lower the kindred's guard and get them to open up, sharing secrets and information that the harpy can use later. All information is useful to a harpy, and a smart harpy will keep as much information as they can to use later when it is more advantageous.

The harpy is considered to be the balance to the Prince and oversees the social standing and politics within the domain. A harpy has as much power as they are able to wield, so their reach depends greatly on the strength of personality and position of a harpy. A prince who wants to stay seated has to walk a line of allowing the harpy to do their job and not running the harpy out of town for doing their job. A prince is not above scandal, and a smart prince will be able to work with the harpy in keeping their praxis stable while allowing the harpy to do their job. Princes who fail to work with harpies tend to become unseated quickly, as harpies are in the best position to pull those strings. A prince also makes sure their harpy is protected, making it clear that any physical altercations against a harpy will be seen as insults to their praxis and domain. A prince and harpy do not have to like each other, but if they can work together, they will make for a very formidable team.

A harpy's job is to keep the social status of the court, setting trends and spreading the gossip of the domain. Harpies ridicule those kindred foolish enough to make mistakes public, thereby maintaining the social order by knocking down those who make mistakes. Since Kindred are outside of the natural order of things, this is a way to ensure that the weakest links have the least amount of power. They oversee the negotiations of boons and enforce punishment upon those who would break boons. A harpy also knows who owes boons and who does not. Kindred who do not owe boons are not trusted within society. Boons are the payment for being accepted in Camarilla domains and not paying is a quick way to be outcast. A harpy keeps familiar with the kindred of note within a domain and their place within society, making sure to know their business.

Powerful harpies are dangerous to offend, their anger quick and their wrath a powerful weapon. Harpies have dethroned Princes who have offended them, besmirched elders who were rude, and humiliated neonates. Harpies have also been known to have the influence and sway to affect the political climate in other domains. A German prince once was so rude to a harpy from Finland that it caused a great stirring of political influences. The domain was buzzing with favors being given and traded as the current harpy was so scandalized by this display that they immediately started working to replace the current prince. The sitting harpy recognized the scandal and danger that this caused to their domain within the sect and did not want to be seen as the weaker of the domain. It was with that quick action that the prince of the domain was unseated, and a more suitable prince took the seat.

Vampires are living history, and none so unforgotten as the harpy. A smart harpy will be able to recall events and individuals who have shaped the Camarilla, for good or poor. She will be able to remember colleagues and understand her place within the collection of harpies that serve their domains. One such power play for a harpy is to never offer a sign of forgiveness to kindred. Should a harpy wish for their punishment to stay long term, a harpy may never accept an invitation for social gatherings, gifts offered, or invitations to special public events from someone who they punished if the harpy wishes for their punishment to be remembered. Accepting any of these can be seen as an act of forgiveness, and should be used only in special circumstances.

One such example is when young kindred within the domain offended the harpy of Marseille. This young Brujah had been garnering favors and influences in the city to start to work their way up in the domain. This Brujah was very savvy and charismatic, and many of the kindred in the domain enjoyed speaking with her. The harpy of the domain, a Toreador, was not comfortable with the amount of support this Brujah had gained, and watched carefully. When the Brujah made a mistake in court and upset a visiting prince, the harpy reprimanded the Brujah for their actions. While this was a minor offence, the harpy has yet to forgive the Brujah, declining invitations to events, even avoiding attendances to raves and parlors hosted by the Brujah, who has since come a long way. This continual snubbing has kept the Brujah from gaining enough influence in the city to move into the position of harpy.

In this situation, the offending kindred will always have that punishment remembered by those in the domain, even if the harpy never actually speaks of it, simply because of the harpy's actions. Harpies can continually remind others of history without ever referencing their direct actions with actions like the above and are not below a harpy's repertoire. Many harpies who have been in their position for any length of time will stand on the failures of others to maintain their position. But a harpy has to be careful not to abuse that too often, or they may find themselves replaced quickly by the domain. A harpy should be mindful of who they forgive and how they go about giving that forgiveness.

It is a delicate balance that a harpy walks when playing their games. Many harpies keep several lesser harpies in their service, empowering them to act as a proxy. A harpy can only be in so many places at once, and having a trusted set of eyes and ears around while in meetings is very handy. A harpy will also see that they could be training their replacement, should someone wish to overthrow her, so a good harpy will make sure they always have dirt on those below them should they get power hungry. Nothing upsets harpy's plans more than a young upstart kindred looking to get higher in the pecking order of the domain without their approval. The harpy of a domain would do well to remember to give some sort of reward to those who serve them, be it favors, information, or introductions to powerful members of the Camarilla. A good harpy will always try to maintain a balance of making sure her subordinates stay there, but also that they enjoy being in that place.

### Tips for Working Elysium

- Learn to work Elysium. That place should be your home, your turf, and all who enter shall have to pay homage.
- Learn to listen. Many times visitors are unsure of who they are talking to, or around. Learn to listen for a while before introducing yourself. Sometimes, the juiciest gossip is spread when they think nobody important is listening. That right there is the best.
- Also, learn to remember everything. Small indiscretions, correspondences, things you help to cover up. All of those can be used in the future against someone. All information is important.
- If you can, employ a Nosferatu as one of your lessers, then you get ALL the good information. Feed them just enough outside information to keep them happy, let them trade the information they give you to their clan, maybe pay them a little extra to give you a few days on the better gossip. All of that is totally worth it. That will keep you in your position longer and push you further up the social ladders in your domain.

## Communication and Organization

The position of harpy has been in place since the formation of the Camarilla. The purpose of the harpy is to be the arbiter for overseeing the currency of boons and to maintain the pecking order of status within the sect. In the bigger picture, the harpy is the one that keeps neonates from rising up against their elders, though it is not outwardly the perception. The system is set up specifically to keep elders ahead in the game and give them an unfair advantage, and the position of harpy is setup to ensure that advantage is kept. The harpy is the gatekeeper for how far kindred can climb, making them a very powerful force in a city. One harpy can make or break a neonate's ability to navigate within the Sect, and a foolish neonate will find it difficult to ever get out of a powerful harpy's grasp. A clever neonate can navigate this complex system, but often are clumsy and make mistakes. Some neonates can move past, depending on how the harpy is feeling at any given moment. Others find themselves only able to go so far before being stopped.

A harpy was also used to pass information around domains. In the time where gossip was slow to travel, a harpy was always building connections with other domains. Often ghouls were used to travel between domains, passing stories around to the other harpies and collecting gossip to bring back to their domains. Harpies would make certain to maintain secured forms of information trading between each other; often times investing a lot of resources and time into making sure they had open communication. At some points in history, harpies would charge new harpies boons to get on the communications, and while this may seem like a great way to get ahead, they found it rather stifling for the trust that goes into trading information. Newer harpies found it as a way of extortion, and instead of creating a network of equals it had become a hierarchy where information was 'owed' rather that shared freely. It was eventually decided that new harpies would have access to this network, and those who attempt to take advantage of that are quickly stopped.

Communication is very important when it comes to being a harpy. You need to make sure you pass information and that it is correct. If you aren't sure, make sure you state that you are still looking into something to verify. We want to be able to have worthwhile information and help verify things. Yes we can be mean to each other, and a lot of times our discussions end in insults, but really, we just like to talk and be catty. The system is setup to easily accommodate those who use more primitive forms of delivery, so if you aren't up on the latest technology, that isn't a problem. Security is still an issue, no matter what you use, so make sure you get that set up so there aren't any problems.
