Similarly, a Humanity Trait can be used in place of a regular Trait during a character's initial bid if his loved one is at risk during the challenge. This is quite useful, particularly if the character no longer has an appropriate Trait to bid but is compelled to act anyway. A Humanity Trait used in this way is lost, regardless of the outcome of the challenge. 
Losing Humanity 
If a ghoul enters a frenzy and harms or kills someone, a check must be made to see if the character loses a Humanity Trait. (If no one is hurt, the ghoul-suffersno long-termscarsfromthefrenzy.) If someone is indeed injured as a result of a ghoul's frenzy, the ghoul must win a Static Social Challenge against four Traits. If the ghoul wins the challenge, he is unaffected by his experience and maintains all Humanity. If the ghoul loses, he acquires a Derangement (to be determined by the Storyteller) . He also loses a Humanity Trait, though not permanently. 
In the event that the ghoul kills someone during frenzy, accidentally or otherwise, an immediate challenge must be made against a Storyteller or Narrator. This takes the form of two Static Challenges, for which the ghoul must bid a Humanity Trait. Loss of one challenge or a tie in both temporarily costs the Trait that was bid and gives the ghoul a Derangement (Storyteller choice). If the ghoul ties one test and loses the other, or loses both, he permanently loses the Humanity Trait he bid and acquires a Derangement. 
A ghoul can only permanently lose a Humanity Trait from frenzying if he kills someone. (This heinous act lowers the character's maximum Humanity by one Trait. ) Under no other circumstances can a character lose Humanity permanently ( allowing for Storyteller discretion—an exception can be made in the case of torturers, vivisectors and the like). Humanity Traits lost temporarily can be regained with experience and good roleplaying. Humanity Traits that are permanently lost cannot be restored under any normal circumstances. 
Of course, if a ghoul kills someone during frenzy but both of his Static Challenges are successes, he loses no Humanity Traits and doesn't gain any Derangements. 
For Example 
Dana's character has a maximum of seven Humanity Traits. At the moment she only has six (the result of using one earlier in the evening). However, she has just killed an innocent bystander while in the throes of a Frenzy. She immediately finds a Storyteller and tells him what happened. 
The Storyteller conducts the mandatory Humanity check. Dana announces that she's bidding her Humanity Trait Innocent; this will serve as the bid for both challenges. In the first challenge, the Storyteller comes up Rock while Dana comes up Scissors. The second attempt finds both Storyteller and Dana with Rock. Dana loses one challenge and ties the other, so permanently loses Innocent, a Trait that she can never regain. In addition, the Storyteller assigns Dana the Derangement: Undying Remorse, because her character is so concerned with keeping her Humanity. 
From here on, Dana can only have a maximum of six Humanity 
Traits. Her innocence (not to mention her Innocent) is lost forever. 
Frenzies aren't the only way to lose Humanity. Acts of outrageous or unnecessary cruelty, crimes or other immoral acts can all lead to the leaching of a ghoul's Humanity. On the following page is a chart of some actions that can lead to Humanity loss, and the penalties associated with them. 
Make Chart from page 49 
Roleplaying 
Remember, losing Humanity is a terrible thing. The erosion of a ghoul's soul profoundly affects the character's personality. The more Humanity a ghoul loses, the closer she comes to her Regnant's Beast, the harder it becomes for her to break her Bond, the more she retreats from human society and the less useful she becomes to her Regnant. Characters who lose Humanity tend to be cynical, jaded and vicious; the loss of even one Trait can have a notice-able effect on long-established behavior patterns. 
Regaining Humanity 
Regaining Humanity Traits depends on how you lost them. Humanity spent to power Numina, save a loved one, counteract a fear, or face a lifethreat-ening situation can be regained in time (in other words, by the next event all Traits spent this way return). Ghouls who are in a hurry or in desperate need can also spend a Willpower Trait to regain a Humanity Trait. 